Earnings are strong. The downside seems
pretty limited.
>> These earnings better grow into some of
these valuations. It looks like we've
got a problem with hitting valuation
ceilings everywhere we look.
>> This market has gotten very speculative.
>> That could cause some volatility in the
near term.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, the stock market rally
stalling following big tech's biggest
one-day rally since May. Neocloud firm
Coreweave is lowering its annual
forecast and Soft Bank Group is
unloading its entire stake in tech giant
Nvidia, pocketing a cool $5.8 billion.
>> So look, this raises a lot of questions.
SoftBank is often known as the company
that invests at the earliest levels of
tech companies. First of all, a question
of why they didn't have more SoftBank.
But the second question is, is this a
more Nvidia, but is this a sign that
SoftBank is trying to get out at the top
or is this a sign that SoftBank sees so
many opportunities elsewhere that
they're looking to cash in so that they
can really make sure that they get in on
those opportunities?
>> So, let's take those two examples and go
with what the companies are saying.
Ultimately, SoftBank is saying we want
this money to reinvest elsewhere.
Corewave saying we've got ultimately a
problem meeting demand, not a demand
problem. And I would say that's the
right kind of problem to have.
>> Potentially, it's the right kind of
problem to have if you are beating
expectations and cash flow. If you have
a huge stockpile of cash and if you
don't have 11 billion of debt that is
high cost and with plans for an
additional tens of billions of dollars
of investments and lease payments over
the next 10 years at the same time that
your revenue is coming in about $5
billion and your profitability is
actually coming in lighter than expected
because margins are tighter. So this is
a different story because of its
leverage and because of it hinging on a
couple of very big players. How much is
this a very levered and concentrated bet
on not only AI but open AI on Microsoft
on Nvidia itself?
>> That's precisely why the stock is down
by 9% in the pre-market so far this
morning. More coverage of that stock a
little bit later but they're not the
only one struggling to meet demand.
Microsoft Satin Nadella came out
recently and talked about power
constraints. That's a conversation we'll
have a little bit later on the program
too. So this raises a question about
whether it's sort of a race to see who
can build out the most and whether we
can handle some of the price increases
that are going to come alongside this
with the energy uh usage in particular.
This is increasingly a political issue
how much energy costs are going up how
you are going to power this and it
raises a question is this a good kind of
constraint or is this a bad kind of
constraint for investors that are
expecting exponential growth and may
have the physical difficulty in actually
reaching it.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning down by
about a third of 1%. Of course, we'll
talk about the government shutdown as
well. More than 2,000 flight
cancellations in this country already to
start the week and there will be more to
come later on this morning. We've taken
a major step towards ending this
government shutdown. Just one more step
to go.
>> Yeah. And first of all, the House has to
actually sign off on it. The expectation
is that everyone will come back from the
prolonged vacation, all of the House
members, so that they can vote and get
it through by tomorrow. Question is
going to be how quickly can we reopen?
How quickly can we get flights
normalized? And how quickly can we get
that data? Is this actually payrolls
Friday that we're going to be having
coming up? And not necessarily the
October payrolls, but the September
payrolls report which has already been
drafted. That is a question. How long is
it going to take to get the deer the
gears rolling again after more than 40
days of shutting?
>> Based on the estimates I've seen of the
earliest Friday for the September
payrolls report, maybe early next week,
but it's coming. It's days away.
>> So, it's not going to be payrolls
Friday. It's going to be payrolls.
>> I would like it to be payrolls Friday,
but it could be payrolls Monday or
Tuesday.
>> That just sounds bleak. I'm sorry.
Absolutely not. It's good to get back on
track, Rambo. Get on board. September
1st, then we'll deal with October and
hopefully we can get November together
by early December. Then it's on to the
Federal Reserve a month away. If you're
just tuning in, welcome to the program.
Big one day rally in yesterday's
session. Slight pullback so far this
Tuesday morning. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Peter Chair of
Academy Securities on the government
reopening. Sheila Kyolu of Jeff as
flight cancellations pile up and Jeff
Curry of Carlile on the race for
powering AI. We begin this hour with
stocks edging lower after the NASDAQ
posted its biggest one-day gain since
May. Peter Chair of Academy writing,
"Markets are rejoicing the end of the
government shutdown, but none of the
other issues that have been bothering
the market are resolved just yet." Pete
joins us now for more. Pete, good
morning. Good to see you. Good morning.
>> Let's talk about those other issues.
What are they?
>> I think you just talked about a lot of
them. Is the valuation correct for AI or
not? Right. It's it feels a bit frothy.
you're now seeing, you know, mega caps
move 10%. On the back of earnings
reports, which seems like a massive
move. So, I think it just shows how much
uncertainty there is about whether we
can pay for this and, you know, more and
more people I think are questioning two
things. One, will we get the electricity
up on board and running in time to let
this growth come out and where does
China stand on some of their own
technology? Right? I think it's been
assumed that we are going to win this
hands down and yet the news out of China
is a little bit disturbing as you see
technology advancements after technology
advancements.
>> There's been a mood shift without a
doubt. faith has been replaced by
skepticism over the last few weeks or
so. Do you think we're forming a
sustainable negative turn in risk
tolerance?
>> You know, this time of the year
seasonality is fairly positive, so that
should help. But yeah, I think there's a
chance we get a significant 5 to 10%
pullback. We started having that last
week. Yesterday's rally was not just, I
think, on the reopening. There was a lot
of news over the weekend that I think
encouraged people. You know, 15year car
loans, 50-year mortgages, uh $2,000
dividend tariff checks coming out. So I
think there is this feeling and I'm
trying to adapt whether it's true or not
that this government is just going to
flood the market and the consumer with
money and liquidity and that's all that
matters coming into the midterms.
>> Okay, I want to actually get into that
but before we do just one more beat on
China and the development there. Do you
see another deep seat coming out that
could potentially disrupt fundamentally
the concept of what kind of resources
are needed to power the AI trade?
>> I think you're seeing it almost on all
fronts. They're growing their energy
production very quickly, right? So
they've got nuclear growing. They
they're working probably harder and
faster on Fusion than we are. Then
you've had DeepSeek, but you see all
these other little announcements and
what they seem to be going for is
efficiency, right? And I think we've had
this that we have the best gadgets and
they're clearly the best technology, the
greatest technology has all the bells
and whistles, but can people do more
with less? And I think that could derail
what we're heading for. I don't think it
will, but that's a risk
>> which is the reason why people were
noticing Cororeweave and saying, "Okay,
this is basically a levered uh data
center bet. What are we going to
understand from the returns there?" When
it comes to some of the stimulus and the
potential checks for $2,000 early next
year, the potential other benefits from
some of the tax reform, how much are you
expecting there to be a real
reaceleration early next year that will
fuel the equity rally, but also fuel
inflation expectations?
>> If you asked me two weeks ago, I would
have said very little. I thought we were
kind of, you know, moving towards, you
know, fiscal conservativeness. We are
going to use some of those dividend
money that or sorry, the tariff money
that's real. It's, you know, we're
coming in about 30 some odd billion
dollars a month, help pay down the
deficit or at least keep the deficit
from growing slower. All of a sudden, it
looks like maybe after the midterm, you
know, those elections two weeks ago,
government's decided it's time to spend
and get money out there. So, I I think
it's a real risk. In which case, I think
bond yields go much higher. I think you
see you're going to see inflation if you
get these stimulus checks. You're going
to see the Fed reluctant to cut. I think
they'll get down to 3% just because
they're on that path, especially if
Moran has man to say about it. But it's
going to be hard to get tens much below
4% I think under that scenario.
>> Fed comes down to three 10 year bond
yields go up to what you said much
higher. What's much higher?
>> So I think for now they push up towards
430 450 and as we get those cuts I think
you see you know twos tens maybe stuck
at about 100 basis points if you get
that sort of cut with the stimulus.
>> Credit to you. I remember 2122. You said
this is real. This inflation story is
real. At the time a lot of people were
going around using the t-word calling it
transitory. any differences between then
and now?
>> You know, I would have said I I think we
the CPI has been overstating inflation
for a while, partly because of how they
calculate housing and things like that,
but you're starting to see the small
uptick in other metrics. You know, two
true inflation, which you have in the
Bloomberg terminal, they're showing
these upticks to 2 and a half%. I think
it's been a good leading indicator when
you look at a lot of things. I think
there's just this creeping level of
inflation. The tariff is starting to hit
a little bit and everything again, if we
are going to get what we've been calling
again, you know, production for
security. If we're really going to start
building out nuclear plants, energy
plants, there's going to be a lot of
demand for commodities, that's going to
be a big pressure on commodities. I just
don't see inflation coming down to, you
know, under two and a half% in the near
term.
>> I wish we could just put a TM trademark
when you ever you say that coming out of
your mouth. I think that would be great.
So, you can really, you know, really
highlight.
>> We have heard some other people use that
term because it's really hard to figure
out what to call this whole thing where
it's going to be chips, pharma, across
the board. This government's investing.
I think just this morning on my way in I
read that they're going to lend or you
know support lending to nuclear
facilities. Like this is real.
>> Okay. So, but this is the conundrum and
this goes down to the inflation story.
How long can you have this technological
overlay that's very strong when paired
with a consumer that is weak and with a
consumer that is pushing back and when
you talk about the inflation story? I
think about some of the retailers that
have talked about how much consumers are
being choiceful and really not going
towards some of the products that are
more expensive. their inability to raise
prices more significantly. Why doesn't
that give you some comfort when it comes
to how quickly inflation can accelerate?
>> Because I think the buildout of this,
especially the energy industry, right?
We are going to have to do solar. I
think wind I not sure whether Trump will
ever cave on that. I do think he'll cave
on uh solar. We'll see that. But you're
going to see nuclear, you're going to
see coal fired plants, you're going to
see all this. I think the effort to
build those out will just be inflation.
It's going to keep a floor on commodity
prices. You're seeing things like copper
stuff. all the demand for these until
the AI data center boom kind of slows I
just don't see inflation coming down
because that just drives too much of the
economy and unfortunately it is going to
keep you know I've been calling it the
little eye shaped economy where you have
this little dot that's doing
phenomenally well and the rest are doing
somewhere between okay and maybe not so
okay so I don't like the K-shaped
because I think it's really isolated the
small segment and that's what's driving
all the growth so far we haven't seen a
turn you know the bond markets have been
very willing to fund this I think
there's going to be a lot more debt
coming into the bond market that might
put small pressure on spreads, but the
money is there to fund this. So, I don't
see what stops that until we get real
growth questions and all of a sudden the
stocks maybe if you get stocks going
back 10, 15, 20%. Then I think you see
the slowdown. But until then, they're
just going to keep growing.
>> Pete, when does coherent ideology die in
Washington DC? It appears to have been
replaced by some kind of fluid mix of
activist populism. When did that die?
>> You know, I'm not sure when it died. And
some of it's been this, you know, I'll
even go back to this transition. You
know, Biden was trying to help the chip
industry, right? Biden, I think, saw
that. We had the chips act. I think it
had some flaws with that. I'm not sure
how we're doing it. It doesn't have its
own set of flaws, but it just feels to
me there's this acceleration. What we've
been talking about, Academy Securities,
um I think I mentioned maybe last night,
we're talking about a pre-war
environment. So, we've shifted to a
mentality that's pre-war. And the reason
we're pre-war is you want to do things
that defend you so that you never
actually get to the state of war. And I
think that's creating a sense of urgency
which we didn't really have before on
anything from errors to critical
minerals. And ultimately I think it will
create this sort of you know you know
sacrifice this you know that people are
willing to sacrifice some things for the
greater good.
>> We're willing to sacrifice free markets
at the altar of national security.
>> I think a little bit of that I think
we're going to have to sacrifice some of
the regulatory but I think there's going
to be huge fights. You're going to see
certain states embrace this and say hey
we're open for business. We will do
whatever it takes to create refineries.
We'll do this. And I think you're
probably going to see states like
California fight tooth and nail saying
we're not willing to change our rules
and regulations to have this growth. So
there is going to be I think some
friction within this country on that.
But I do think that's the stage we're at
as more and more people are looking at
China and saying you know what we better
take this seriously and we might have to
change how we think about life if we're
going to have a really good life 10 20
30 years down the road because China
keeps eating our lunch in many little
ways. And you know again it's so easy
2005 right? China had almost no IP. The
things they made were basically, you
know, sweat shops and it was kind of
mediocre quality. Circa 2025, it's
robotics everywhere, really high quality
stuff and things, the IP scales are much
more even and somewhere they're leading.
Other ways we're still leading. So, it's
not like a we've lost by any stretch of
the imagination, but the world has
changed in 20 years. And we have to
prevent that from keeping on that path.
>> They didn't hide it. They literally
called it made in China and put a year
on.
>> Yeah.
>> They told you the date. And you know, I
think Spider Marks again has always
talked about China its entire history
always tells you what they're going to
do. They march in plain sight and
everyone just chose to ignore it. I
think we kept thinking, oh, eventually
they'll want to be like us. They never
wanted to be like us. They don't want
to. And I think as that realization
hits, okay, how do we deal with a China
who has their own agenda? We know what
their agenda is. And how can we be
competitive, still work with them?
>> Pete, does that mean we become more like
them?
>> I think everyone's going to have to be a
little bit more independent. Everyone's
going to have to make sure that they are
producing their own goods domestically,
then working with their close allies,
and then some fraction can be bought
from the cheapest provider. But I think
it's changing the mentality. It's to me
it's the new ESG, right? I think ESG put
a lot of things on the table in terms of
governance, sustainability, and now I
think it's going to be let's take a
really hard look at this and you know,
let's throw out the rosecolored glasses
that everyone wants to be friendly and
say, assuming not everyone wants to be
friendly, what do we have to do?
>> Pete, it's good to see you. You're going
to stick with us. Pachchair of Academy.
If you're just joining us, equity
futures down by close to 0.2% on the S&P
500. With an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief, here's Vonyie
Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. The longest
government shutdown in US history could
end as soon as tomorrow. The Senate
passed a temporary funding measure that
would keep most of the government open
through January 30th and the rest
through the end of September. Now, that
measure heads to the House where
lawmakers are expected to take it up
tomorrow.
President Trump says he's close to a
trade deal with India. The US raised
tariffs on many Indian goods to 50%
earlier this year in part to pressure
New Delhi to stop buying Russian oil.
Indian refiners have begun scaling back
purchases from Moscow after President
Trump sanctioned Russia's two largest
producers last month.
Shares of Cororeweave are trading lower
in the pre-market. The company cut its
annual revenue forecast due to a delay
in fulfilling a customer contract.
Cororeweave citing temporary delays due
to a thirdparty data center developer.
Shares of Cororeweave are up more than
160% since it went public just in March.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyi
later on this hour. Up next on the
program ending the government shutdown.
>> After 40 days of wandering in the
wilderness and making the American
people suffer needlessly, our long
national nightmare is finally coming to
an end.
>> The reality is America is too expensive.
That's why Democrats have been waging
this fight and will continue to wage
this fight.
>> A conversation up next with Bloomberg's
Mike Shepard live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Just when the Bank of England thinks
it's done, the data brings them back in.
Unemployment 5%. Guess when that data
came out. Look at this chart. Sterling
weaker off the back of that data. Cable
down to 13136. T- road price this
morning saying Brammo that rate cuts
coming in December.
>> Yeah. And the misery index is climbing.
The misery index is the sum of the
inflation and unemployment. the idea
that wage growth is just enough to keep
things a little bit heated on the
inflation side of things, but just bad
enough to leave people without the
spending power to really go out there
and meet the higher costs that they're
facing. This is a doom loop that no
central bank wants to face.
>> It's about to get more miserable. Tax
hikes still coming later this month. The
next budget from Chancellor Reeves.
>> Look, Rachel Reeves had a couple of
pledges. She's going back on them. She's
raising money to try to plug a gap that
she created for herself to try to give
herself headroom. Meanwhile, yields are
going up, borrowing costs are going up,
which just causes them to tax more and
increase the costs, leaving people in a
quagmire of what the solution is going
to be for a brighter future.
>> Sterling down a third of 1%, 13137.
Broader equity markets pulling back
following yesterday's rally. We're down
a tenth of 1% on the S&P, down by.3 on
the Nasdaq. And Savanis this morning,
ending the government shutdown.
After 40 days of wandering in the
wilderness and making the American
people suffer needlessly, some Senate
Democrats finally have stepped forward
to end the pain. Our long national
nightmare is finally coming to an end.
>> The reality is America is too expensive.
That's why Democrats have been waging
this fight and will continue to wage
this fight
no matter what comes over to us from the
United States Senate.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Senate passing legislation to end the
government shutdown with support from a
handful of Democrats. The bill now
heading to the Republican controlled
House. Joining us now is Blindberg's
Mike Shepard. Shep, just walk us through
the progress we've made in the last 24
hours and a sequence of things over the
next 24.
Well, we saw the Senate reach a
breakthrough last night, John, with the
chamber voting 60 to 40 to pass this
interim spending measure that'll keep
most of the government open at least
through January 30th. And then uh we saw
as part of that eight democ moderate
Democrats uh conceding in essence
joining Republicans in passing this
measure. And that concession really
infuriated members across the party and
really raised questions as you heard
from Hakee Jeff about their where they
would go from here. But as far as this
bill is concerned, it is now in the
hands of the US House. Uh they expect to
vote sometime tomorrow. The exact timing
of when they would take it up is
unclear. Uh but Mike Johnson is
expecting it to pass. President Donald
Trump has signaled his support for it
and is expected to sign it as soon as it
hits his desk. Republicans, as you heard
from Mike Johnson, are trying to cast
this as a victory. Uh they are saying
that they prevailed, holding out against
the Democratic holdouts and uh looking
at it as a victory. Meanwhile, for
Democrats, they are regrouping now and
trying to figure out how to rebound from
this loss. Now, the question of timing,
John, is an interesting one because
House members have not been in
Washington really since the end of
September. They took their last vote on
September 19th, and they have to get
back to town. And part of their return
could be impeded by some of the
disruption to air travel that we have
seen caused by the shutdown. So, we will
have to watch that as a question of
timing. And another thing we're going to
have to watch is, as I said, not all of
the government will be funded through
the end of the fiscal year in September.
Most of it in fact is only funded
through January 30th and that tees us up
for another potential showdown
overspending as soon as we get into the
new year. John, hey Shep, it's good to
see you. We'll catch up with you a
little bit later this morning. Mike
Shepard there down in Washington DC.
Peter Cher Academy still with us. Pete,
this language coming from Congressman
Jeff. America's too expensive. That's
why Democrats have been waging this
fight. Will continue to wage this fight.
You touched on it. What's that fight
look like in 2026? You know, it feels
like there's this ongoing friction and
both sides somehow think they win from
these shutdowns. To me, it's ridiculous
that you make air traffic controllers,
people are considered essential, go to
work without getting paid. How that's
not just set aside in the budget. And
meanwhile, as far as I can tell,
Congress is getting paid and on
vacation. That seems a much better place
to be. And I think there's going to have
to be a rethink about some of this.
Like, I think our military, anyone who's
deemed essential, I don't see why their
pay should be cut or, you know, held
back. Yes, they get it eventually, but
why? It seems like a silly way to run a
country.
>> This does feel like a vibe shift though
over the past month when it comes to the
political landscape with a focus on cost
of living and a look for quick fixes to
try to offset the near-term pain. How
much is that factoring into your view of
markets, your view of the deficit and
any kind of reluctance to address it?
>> That's why I'm a little bit bearish on
yields. I think, you know, I've been
fairly bullish. We got down to 4% on 10.
I think we go back to 430 maybe 440 on
tens because this persistent inflation
and there does seem that there's this
potential that we'll get some sort of
stimulus that there's something you know
in the works to kind of goose this
economy even more than it's already you
know being gooseed. It's kind of so
awkward. At one point we're talking
about the need to help the economy. The
other second we're talking about alltime
highs on stocks. So we're in this very
unusual thing. I think we're very prone
to another round of inflation. I think
that's been the frustrating thing for a
lot of people. You're not seeing
inflation coming down. And I think the
biggest bite and this one's really hard.
I think politicians are just adapting to
it. It's about electricity prices,
right? That's really what's driving. It
sits on everyone's, you know, you get
your monthly bill. Wow, my electricity
prices keep going up. I don't understand
where they're going up. There's clearly
demand for more and more electricity.
And I think people are still stuck about
gas prices and gas at the prompt to me
is secondary from this sort of inflation
and food inflation.
>> So, what kind of proposals are you
expecting to hear aside from the ones
that we've been talking about?
>> You know, I don't know whether any of
those will actually take off. Again, I
I'm struggling with some of this because
it feels very politically messaged to
me. It's, you know, when I look at the
US government, I feel here's all sorts
of income methods and here's all sorts
of spending methods. I'm not sure how
you can say, well, tariffs are going to
go for this dividend check. That seems a
little bit reminds me a little bit
honestly of green bonds where you have a
company and like, oh, this slug's going
to be green, but it does, it's, you
know, it feels false to me in some ways.
And I think that's unfortunately where
we're headed. We are going to see, I
think, both sides try and set up for the
midterms. And to me right now it looks
like the Republicans setting up for the
midterms are going to try and flood this
market with money liquidity and they're
going to try and get to consumers and it
seems like awkwardly the Democrats are
going to be fighting that because they
don't want the economy necessarily doing
well into the midterms.
>> Typically I check in on the bond market
but the bond market's closed because of
Veterans Day. The equity market should
be too. We all agree on that, right?
>> 100%.
>> You of course work at Academy. Let's
talk about some of the tremendous work
that you and the team have been doing
with veterans. I believe 50% of the
staff are veterans.
>> Yes. So, we've grown a lot in my, you
know, eight years there. I think we
probably 50 people. We're now almost 200
people. About 50%'s veterans. One of the
things that's just awesome, and I'll
tell this story. I think it's great. But
we have, you know, these um interns come
in. Our interns though, one day come
into our San Diego office and there's
like bright orange Camaro or something
outside. Like, who's that? That's the
interns. Like, that's a weird thing. But
then you realize the intern is 28 years
old, signed up to be in the Marines at
age 18, worked for 10 years on that.
It's a very different one of our other
favorite interns. he's you meet the
intern. He's 32 with three children
under the age of five. So, it's a very
different thing and it's really
interesting that we're able to bring
these people in, let them grow, give
them, you know, some experience on the
business. And it's been a phenomenally
successful thing. We're having a lot of
success. We are really, really strong in
money markets and short-term uh debt
trading. We're probably in the top 10
with Fanny May debt, things like that.
And that's been a great part spot to
really bring in young veterans who, you
know, and it's really hard to find a
spot on Wall Street. You're just not the
right age. you're not necessarily the
right background. We understand a lot
what they do. I want to give you guys
these challenge coins. So challenge
coins, my understanding is they started
in World War I. It was pilots held these
challenge coins. So if they were caught
behind enemy lines, they could identify
themselves. And it's grown to something
where every military unit has one of
these. And now more and more, you know,
firms have these. You'll see veterans
groups within large organizations have
these. And I think there was actually a
pretty cool thing of president actually
giving his challenge coin to a kid at
the commander game this weekend. So it's
kind of a neat thing. It kind of
represents ours has a picture of the
World Trade Center on it because we were
started really post 911 and we kind of
want to commemorate that in our
challenge coin and again want to thank
you for all the support you guys give to
academy you're letting us be on
>> Pete this was special. Thank you sir.
>> Thank you very much here on this
>> and I am not a veteran so I just want to
make that clear. I don't want any stolen
val of course but you guys are doing
tremendous work for the veterans. So
thank you sir on this veterans day.
Peter of the wonderful academy
securities. Coming up next Jeff Curry of
Carlile on the rising demand for energy
to power AI. Plus, we'll catch up with
Yahara with your morning movers.
Corweave cutting its annual revenue
forecast. That name down by close to 10%
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Kicking off the trading week with a
decent day of gains in yesterday's
session this morning. Pulling back just
a touch. We're down by 0.2% on the S&P.
We're down by a third on the NASDAQ 100.
The big winners on Monday were the big
losers last week. Palanteer Nvidia
helping to lead the gains. The NASDAQ
the worst week since April, followed up
by the best session since May. It's been
a choppy ride, hasn't it, over the last
week or so?
>> And it hasn't really been determined by
fundamentals. And this has been the
tricky question around it. A lot of the
losses came after earnings came out
better than expected pretty much across
the board when it comes to the big tech
uh behemoths. So, it raises a question
about why exactly they're rallying now.
Is it because the the government's
reopening? Is that really propping up
the AI bet or is it just that people
feel feel like there's enough froth
that's been beaten out of the system
that they could feel comfortable getting
back in?
>> That's the latest on Washington. I'm not
sure how much of it is Washington and
the government shut down.
>> I mean, on one hand, it could be
momentum trades. I mean, the fact that
gold rallied in tandem with stocks all
of a sudden, is it a risk asset that is
responding to the government reopening?
I mean, it's mindbending. So, it's hard
to give narrative to this.
>> It opens the door to data and that data
might open the door to rate cuts in
December. That's about as far as I can
take this right now.
>> We can go derivative derivative reason.
>> All I can do bond markets closed today
for Veterans Day as we count it down to
the cash open for equities about 3 hours
away. Let's get you some morning movers
with Yahira Arnand. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. After an outstanding session
yesterday, its best since April and
video shares are now in the red, falling
1.5% after Soft Bank said it sold its
entire stake for nearly $6 billion with
with founder Masayoshi's son planning to
use that cash to fund its other AI
projects like Stargate here in the US.
And while Soft Bank says this has
nothing to do with Nvidia itself, we are
seeing some skepticism in the market. We
are also seeing some skepticism around
Coree. Those shares are falling now more
than 9% in the pre-market after a
delivery delay forced the company to
trim its outlook. Add in the fact that
shares have nearly doubled this year and
general jitters around AI. And you get
today's selloff despite strong momentum
for the company with future sales nearly
doubling to $55 billion thanks to fresh
new deals with OpenAI, Meta, as well as
others. And we end on a positive note
with Paramount Skyand shares rising
nearly 5% in the pre-market after the
studio boosted cost cuts to $3 billion
and pledged to slash 1,600 jobs in an
efficiency drive. And we did hear from
CEO David Ellison about M&A amid all
those reports that Paramount has been
aggressively pursuing Warner Brothers
Discovery. While he did not mention
Warner Brothers by name, he did say that
Paramount has the balance sheets to
pursue deals. John,
>> it's a good start for David Ellison,
that's for sure. Yhara, thank you. That
stock is up in a pre-market by something
like 5%. On a radar this morning, one of
our top stories, the record-breaking US
government shutdown may finally be
nearing its end. The House Speaker Mike
Johnson saying a vote to pass the
Senate's funding measure could come as
soon as Wednesday. Elsewhere, SoftBank
divesting its entire stake in Nvidia for
nearly six billion US dollars, fueling
its massive AI push. The move expected
to fund other projects, including
developing data centers and
manufacturing robots right here in the
United States. And finally, shares of
Corweave sliding despite delivering a
revenue beat. The AI firm cutting its
outlook, citing delays in fulfilling a
major customer contract. The company CEO
telling investors the setback stems from
a third party developer that's behind
schedule. Look, this is the epicenter of
a lot of the AI fears. Coreweave is
essentially rent a data center, right?
If you want to do your work and you
don't want to actually invest in the
infrastructure, go to Cororeweave. And
so that's the reason why they have
partners with the likes of OpenAI and
Nvidia and other big tech giants that
are looking to offload some of the
infrastructure buildout. It just raises
a question a about the concentration
risk given the fact that these all these
companies are leveraged on top of each
other but second of all a question about
how coreweave is at the epicenter of so
much of this and they have 11 billion of
debt. They have $28 billion of lease
payment obligations coming due over the
next 10 years and they've got profits of
less than $2 billion in terms of what
you saw in the quarterly results. raises
a question of how they get there given
the fact that they are not able to grow
as quickly into their footprint and
they're taking on more debt in order to
fund some of their additional buildout.
It just highlights the leverage nature
of certain nodes of the AI trade.
>> You're right to raise these questions
because typically we talk about the
balance sheet strength that are
hyperscalers, the big capex spenders and
those balance sheets are strong. That's
not true of the whole ecosystem. No,
this is the epicenter really of the uh
speculative grade company that is at the
heart of a lot of the rapid buildout.
When you talk to people who are actually
using some of these generative AI models
and they're looking for something like
Coreweave, they're shifting from the
cheapest one to the cheapest one and
they're racing and they haven't
determined who the winner is yet. So,
it's a big race to lower prices on one
side, crimping margins, which you saw
from Coreavee, at the same time building
out as much capacity as you can to meet
all of the demand. It is a difficult
recipe. You add on what Pete Shear was
talking about the potential for China to
come up with an efficiency a deepseek
moment. It raises a question where is
the overbuild and are we missing
something about how far this can go
>> corweave in a pre-market damp by close
to 10% a sigotech limited power capacity
creating major hurdles for meeting AI
demand including in Nvidia's hometown of
Santa Clara California data centers
there may stand empty for years awaiting
electricity supply a man who tracks all
of this Jeff Curry he's the chief
strategy officer for energy pathways at
Carlile and he joins us now for more
Jeff it has been too long my friend
welcome back to the program sir It's
going to catch up with you. Jeeoff,
let's just talk about this. I know
you're tracking it. Energy constraints.
We were hoping that maybe this is
something out in our future. Is it right
here in our present?
>> Oh, it's right here in our present. You
know, this discussion around data
centers. You know, you take gas, you
know, the constraint on there is gas
turbines. It's grid. Grid is copper. Um,
we look at what's going on in the oil
market this morning. you know,
restrictions around, you know, ships,
availability of ships, refineries, you
know, all of these old economy assets
are really coming back to bite. And when
we look at the commodity complex that
that bull market that started in gold is
broadening. You know, not only does it
include, you know, base metals, it also
includes agriculture recently with a big
move in soybeans and corn. Um, and even
US natural gas has joined the rally. Um
so I you know I think that the one big
lagard is crude oil. Um we can talk
about that later. Um but I think when we
look at the broader you know commodity
complex and the equal weighted GSCI is
up 25% this year. So these physical
constraints they're biting.
>> Jeeoff as you know we went through an
energy bust a decade ago. We did the
same thing with other commodities as
well. Anything tied to China went
through a bust and it brought a lot of
discipline to some of the miners out
there. the Rios, the BHP, they shifted
from volume to value, Jeff, they did
that over the last tech decade or so.
What have we built up to just how
underinvested are we in the whole
commodity complex?
>> Oh, I I when we look at the growth in
like copper, you know, we're within, you
know, a year or so of being in peak peak
supply there. Um, you know, we look at
across even like gold. Gold cannot keep
up with the demand that's coming out of
the central banks. Um, you know, we look
at, you know, crude oil. um there's no
investment on the horizon you know
beyond of March of next year for um you
know for for upstream. In fact the point
I like to say is you know we look at all
of the new major projects in oil there's
zero um that are available um you know
beginning uh next year in nonopc. I
think your point here you that focus on
returning value to to shareholders not
overspending is now creating a deficit
in the availability of supply.
>> Jeeoff, how are some of these miners and
other commodity producers financing
future exploration and future buildout
so that they can meet the demand which
is increasing? Is it with debt? Is there
sort of a misdirection of people
investing in data centers rather than
new say copper mines?
Um, absolutely. Um, when we look at the
the upstream investment, you know, that
old point, you know, cash is king. You
typically need cash flow to be able to
make these investments. Um, particularly
in the high volatile markets of
commodities. Um, and as a result, prices
are not high enough yet to be able to
stimulate that investment. We're now
seeing copper getting up that level
around $11,000 a ton where it does start
to make sense and you'll see more
projects. But then with copper, the
problem is you don't have the pipeline
of projects to actually do even if we go
to $12,000 a ton. Uh but I think all of
these markets, you know, face the same
constraints. And your point about where
do you want to be in that supply chain?
I'm going to go back to where is the
real bottleneck in this whole, you know,
AI process. Um it's really at the gas
turbines and the grid. The grid is
copper. Um and you know, gas turbines
are steel. So we have a lot of
investment that needs to take place at
that point in the supply chain before
you can really begin to grow it.
>> This takes time. Everything that you
just mentioned takes a lot of time. I
just wonder how feasible some of the AI
hopes and dreams and valuations are
without the buildout of what you're
talking about.
>> Oh, absolutely. A lot of that capex
spend that we're seeing, you know, these
three $400 billion capex spends, a lot
of that's going to go into the copper
price and the commodity prices because
you hit that physical supply constraint,
you start to spend more and what
happens, the prices go up. You know,
that's why we we look at at commodities,
they're the most undervalued asset on
your screen today. And of all of them,
oil is actually the most undervalued. Um
so what will likely happen here is that
we'll see these commodity prices rise as
the demand begins to increase and in
base metals we're already witnessing it.
Um and in you know precious metals we're
already witness it. So this is going to
be a continuous feature not only this
year um but by the way you grow you look
at a chart of commodities um and copper
and you take it all the way back to 2020
you had that spike in Ukraine um but
it's just an upward trend in prices. you
know, you go from $5,000 all the way to
around $11,000. Um, so we I think this
is, you know, that broader super cycle.
We're witnessing it in metals and we're
going to see a continuation of it
throughout this decade.
>> So, Jeeoff, let's talk about some
numbers. As you say, copper in London's
already close to 11K. Crude down in the
60s. What are you expecting to see in
the next 12 18 months?
Um, you know, with with with copper when
we look out two to three years, we put a
target of around $15,000 a ton on it.
So, we got a lot more upside. By the
way, that $15,000 a ton just comes from
historical what price do you need to
create demand destruction. We really
don't know how high it could actually
go. And we're not getting that. We're
not that far away at at 11,000. Um, so
again, and I think with crude oil, the
one thing we're seeing right now is
refined product prices have, you know,
dislocated to the upside relative to
crude. That means you're struggling
against refining capacity. I'm not going
to say we're out of refining capacity or
anything like that. And I think what
happens as refineries come back online
out of maintenance as we go into the end
of this year, um we're going to see some
of that upside that is in the product
prices be translated into um you know
the oil price. But I think the key point
here is we look at the broader commodity
complex um pretty much everything but
you know crude oil is moving even
natural gas has moved in in the most
recent environment.
>> Jeeoff how price sensitive is the
investment going on right now? You
mentioned copper. Let's say we go from
11 and make our way to 15. You mentioned
demand destruction. How are you thinking
about whether that kicks in or not based
on the amount of money that's behind
this story at the moment?
>> Um yeah, I when we look at the demand
destruction, um it's going to be it's a
physical thing. It's not a price thing.
And so when you think about it, bringing
on a new copper mine is a 10 to 12 year
proposition. We're not going to create
supply tomorrow. So, what you have to
ask is if you can't bring on the new
supply, what price level do you need
that they'll substitute into aluminium
or some other type of commodity? Um, and
that's where we come up with that
$15,000 a ton, you know, price level.
But we don't really know until you
actually get there. What are the other
factors? Where's the dollar at that
point in time? Overall economic GDP, um,
it could be, you know, substantially
higher than that. Um, you know, I would
argue the risk here are, you know,
significantly to the upside given the
size of the capex spend going on on the
AI side.
>> Just quickly here, Jeff, what's the best
way to get in on this, the raw
materials, the equities of commodity
companies or the debt related to this
buildout?
>> Oh, I the the debt I would put off to
the side where I would be focusing on is
the raw materials. Um, when we think
about, you know, the the absolute lever
to the upside, if you, you know, you own
the commodities, but they're much more
volatile. The way I like to think about
it is the commodities themselves, you're
playing that very front-end spot price
with the company, um, and the equities
that produce these things. You're
playing that longer term, you know,
price. The way they like to think about
it is those companies price inflation
expectations. Well, when we think about
the commodities themselves, they're
pricing that spot. um you know the
unanticipated move in the commodity
prices. So what it would argue own a
little bit of both. Own some of the
commodity equities. They give you that
long-term price while owning the
commodity will give you that, you know,
that near-term unexpected upward um
surprise in prices.
>> Jeeoff, this was thoughtful. Let's do it
again soon. It's good to see you, buddy.
As always, Jeff Curry of Carl, thank you
very much. Thank you. Talking about a
move on copper from 11K, close to 11K
towards 15. This to me is the ultimate
question going forward. Can the
commodity side of the world keep up with
the infrastructure demands behind some
of the AI bet and the other kind of pull
uh buildouts that we've heard from a lot
of different companies and and and
countries? If it can't, what does that
mean about costs and what kind of
inflationary input is that?
>> What's it going to take to shake the
discipline of some of these miners? The
story used to be give them a dollar,
they'll dig a hole. That story changed a
long, long time ago. It also raises a
question of how they get that dollar.
Are they going to get it through equity
financing or are they going to get it
through debt financing? Jeff Curry
doesn't want to be part of the debt
financing, but everybody else is part of
the debt financing. So, how much does
this have to be a new wave of leverage
that gets built into the physical world?
>> Copper right now positive by about a
third of 1%. If you are just catching up
with us, equities down by 0.2% following
yesterday's big gain. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Vonnie Quinn for more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Switzerland close
to securing a 15% tariff on its exports
to the US. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that a deal could be finalized
within the next two weeks. A tariff deal
would be a relief for Switzerland after
Washington hit it with a 39% levy in
August.
Meta shares falling in the pre-market.
The Financial Times reporting the
company's chief AI scientist is planning
to leave and create his own startup. The
move comes as Meta founder and CEO Mark
Zuckerberg is shaking up the company's
AI strategy in order to keep up with
rivals such as OpenAI and Google.
And Apple is delaying the release of
next year's version of the iPhone Air.
According to the information, the delay
comes after its first model sold below
expectations. Although the length of the
delay remains uncertain, the product
won't be released in the fall of 2026 as
previously planned. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. I'm not selling one.
Did my channel checks. You go into the
store and I'm talking about the
Verizons, the AT&Ts of this world and
the first thing they'll tell you is that
the battery is not as good and the
camera isn't either.
>> I knew that's where you were yesterday.
>> They're like pushing you towards
>> around talking doing channels. iPhone
Air.
>> I'm always checking it.
>> Yeah, I know. I think it's great. It
means it means you're actually looking
for an iPhone upgrade. So, that's
actually bullish for Apple, but I
digress.
>> Channel checks, Brao.
>> Oh, yeah. That's right. for everybody
else. Equity futures on the S&P down by
two ten of 1%. Up next on the program,
restaff the skies.
>> We should not have had people leaving
their jobs. I want to reward the people
that showed up without a lot of
nonsense. A lot of people are getting
through. I think the people are going to
start showing up.
>> A conversation up next with Sheila Kaolu
of Jeff live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
on stock to watch. Here's Meta in the
pre-market down by about 1.3% off the
back of this news from the Financial
Times. Meta's chief artificial
intelligence scientist Yandon is
planning to leave the social media giant
to found his own startup. That according
to the FT this morning. All I can say is
if you want to make big money, be an AI
officer at one of these companies
because it seems like a food fight over
talent. This follows other stories that
we've seen both leaving Apple. Remember
the string of exits there. Last night,
we heard the Intel CTO and AI officer
leaving to go to guess who? Open AAI. I
would love to see the compensation lists
and how quickly uh wage inflation is
going up for this particular cohort of
workers.
>> One way just sort of one way up and up.
>> Exponential nose bleed. How many
millions can you put on the end? Crazy
crazy numbers and apparently those
numbers aren't crazy enough for Meta to
keep Yan Kern in the seat. Let's see how
that turns out. That stock is lower in
the pre-market. The broader market doing
okay. We're down by 210 of 1% on the S&P
on the NASDAQ 100 negative by 0.4
and Savannah this morning restaffing the
skies.
>> I was not happy when I saw all these
people. Oh, we have to look. Life is not
so easy for anybody. Our country's never
done better. We should not have had
people leaving their jobs. I want to
reward the people that showed up without
a lot of nonsense, with a lot without
without a lot of talk. They did their
job and in many cases they worked longer
hours to get us through this period. A
lot of people are getting through I
think the people are going to start
showing up.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Flight cancellations piling up as
President Trump is ordering air traffic
controllers to get back to work. Sheila
Colola of Jeffre writing the risk is
that the shutdown extends through
Thanksgiving with that week around the
holiday accounted for about 9% of total
fourth quarter passenger traffic in both
23 and 24. Sheila, I think this morning
there's a sense that that was the risk.
The hope now is that we just sail right
through this and we move on. Is that
right?
>> Yeah, but I still think it'll impact
just given the schedule impacts we're
seeing 10% of capacity at major 40 major
airports. It's six to seven percent of
capacity for United, Delta, and
American. And John, similar to you, as
you're doing iPhone channel checks, I'm
going to be doing a channel check soon,
heading to the airport myself. So, we'll
see how those delays uh and shortages
are staffing up.
>> Sha, can you just describe what happens
in a period like this? Staff and crews
in the wrong place, don't get back to
the right place, how many days it takes
to get things back on track.
>> It'll take a few days, but the immediate
impacts are at these airports. Regional
flights cut the most. And in terms of
flights, we'll see, you know, uh certain
not more nonprofitable routes being cut.
But I think of course it'll impact the
profitability of the airlines who are
seeing an improvement in Q3 and are
doing a little bit better. So in
general, it's very difficult for air
traffic controllers to come to work.
It's difficult for the traveling public
and of course it impacts the airlines,
the schedules, what sort of aircrafts
they're using where as there's, you
know, 10% cancellations in some cases.
Sheila, let's say the government reopens
tomorrow or at least the vote to reopen
the government takes place tomorrow. How
long do you expect it to take before
there is normaly when it comes to flight
patterns?
>> It'll become pretty quick. Um the
capacity will come back online. United
said it's done its cancellations through
tomorrow. So, it's rolling cancellations
essentially day by day. Uh but airlines
are, you know, have very effective
networks. So, that'll come together
really quick. It just every day
traveling it you have to plan for
delays. Although I haven't really seen
any delays with TSA, it's just been in
the air. Uh you're seeing up to 30 to
40% delays.
>> Which carriers do you think are going to
be most affected longer term, not
necessarily being able to make up for
the volume for the business?
>> Um it I think Lisa, it's primarily a
short-term problem and once the
shutdown's resolved, airlines will
resume normal operations. And of course,
because we're cutting back 10% of
capacity at the 40 major airports, the
biggest airlines are the most impacted
on the short term. So that's United,
that's Delta, and American at their
hubs. Uh that's where they have to cut
back capacity. What they'll do is
they'll cut back the most frequent
flights, the most regional flights. Uh
so they'll keep the bigger planes in the
air for longer. Um but you'll still see
delay. You'll encounter delays at the
airport.
>> She typically, and we've had this
conversation a few times with a number
of people over the past few weeks,
typically this is how it goes. How are
things right now? They'll say it's
problematic. It's not a big deal. We'll
recover in the months to come. And I'm
sure we will. And then we say, well,
tell us about 26. what's going to do
well. They'll say the premium cabin
fantastically positioned to do well.
Then we'll say, "What's your top pick?"
And they'll just turn around and say
Delta. Sheila, almost every conversation
we have concludes with Delta. Outside of
Delta, what is this industry now? What's
left of it.
>> Oh, United is has been our top buy uh as
well as Delta all year. It's the
premium. I think in in in my coverage,
it's the world of the halves and the
have nots, whether it's airlines,
whether it's defense, uh whether it's
the aftermarket names. So, in general,
the premium offerings are working.
That's where you're seeing pricing go
up. The main cabin is still
deflationary, which is quite remarkable.
Price down year-over-year in 25 after 24
being down. And that's really what
drives the outperformance of United and
Delta relative to the other two.
American and Southwest are sort of stuck
in in their price ranges, unable to
move. And they both have strategies.
Americans going into the widebody,
increasing their widebody seats,
increasing their Atlantic flights, and
then Southwest, as we know, has a major,
has Elliot involved, and has a major
overhaul of its strategy, assigned
seating, extra leg room, essentially
changing who the airline is, but it
can't change where it flies. And that's
part of the problem.
>> Well, what do you think needs to change
to make the rest of the industry work
outside of Delta and a sprinkle of
United Airlines?
>> Less capacity, more interesting flights.
Um, you know, United announced a
expansion to five direct flights into
Europe that we haven't seen before. It's
less of a aggressive move than their
previous flight last year to nuke
Greenland. Uh, but it is five new
Atlantic um routes that didn't exist
directly from the US market. Uh, what we
see from the lowcost carriers is
continued flights into Florida and the
Caribbean. That market becomes
saturated. pricing continues to be lower
and it doesn't end well for
profitability for them and also rising
costs. Uh a lot of the airlines have had
labor agreements that increases their
costs. So revenues aren't going up and
costs are go uh going up and that's
creating uh a bad environment for them.
>> Sheila, always good to see you. Thanks
for the update. Shiloh there of
Jeffrey's good luck at the airport of
course and to everybody else attempting
to travel later on this morning. It's
always Delta and maybe as you heard
there a little bit of United Airlines.
>> Yeah. And have you ever gotten one of
those surveys? What interesting place
would you like to fly to? Tell us and
then maybe we'll make it happen. That's
kind of what she was responding to.
>> A direct flight from JFK to Pulia.
>> Okay, thank you.
>> On Delta Airlines. That's my request.
>> I'm glad that we got this in.
>> I'll write that in every time. There we
go.
>> And if you Mitch calls 5 to 10% is the
answer. All right. Coming up next, Dan
Skellyy of Morgan Stanley, Henriett
Trees of Evad Partners, Heath Terry of
City, Sebatra Japper of Sojet. The
second hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
next.
Earnings are strong. The downside seems
pretty limited.
>> These earnings better grow into some of
these valuations. It looks like we've
got a problem with hitting valuation
ceilings everywhere we look.
>> This market has gotten very speculative
>> that could cause some volatility in the
near term.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Quite a choppy ride over the last week
or so. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Savannah starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Egary
futures pulling back by just 0.2% on the
S&P. Last week, a week of losses.
Yesterday, a big day of gains. On the
NASDAQ, the worst week since April,
followed up by the best day since May.
On the NASDAQ 100 this morning, we're
down by a third of 1%. And look to these
two names right here. Nvidia, SoftBank
unloading its stake in the tech giant.
That name is down by 1.4%. and some
problems at core wheat. Lisa
articulating them well that stock down
by 10% this morning.
>> Look, even if you did get gains
yesterday, there still is this
existential fear that we're at the top
in terms of valuations that maybe the
hopes go beyond some of the actual
capabilities in real time that AI can
deliver. That seems to be the story that
we saw from Coree in terms of just how
quickly they can build out what people
are demanding in terms of their data
centers, the rent to data center kind of
a location. And then when it comes to
Nvidia, SoftBank unloading now their
stake for a 5.65.8 billion profit. Is
this because they're selling at the top
or is this really because they're trying
to raise money for other investments?
>> They say it's to raise money for other
investments. Other people can decide and
make their own judgment. Call them that.
I don't see SoftBank getting out of
anything too early. Usually they're
staying too long, don't they? Isn't that
usually the way this works? The fact
that they're getting out of Nvidia to
invest in data centers definitely will
raise some eyebrows given the fact that
some people are raising questions about
whether data centers are actually the
place of some froth based on potential
efficiencies and the likes of Deutsche
Bank are actually looking for ways to
hedge some of their data center
investments. So there are questions here
about exactly what SoftBank is doing.
Nonetheless, questions around valuations
are going to continue to swirl and
that's what I think this
>> less from me just to state the obvious.
We've had triple digit gains on
somebody's stocks. If you don't blow it
out of the water, there'll be push back
in this equity market. And we've seen
several examples of that over the past
few weeks. Meta push back, Palanteer
push back, core push back.
>> And the argument on the other side, if
you want to be optimistic, is that
you're not getting the push back. And
this is a point you've made many times
from the bond markets where you've seen
issuance received. So if there is a lot
of liquidity out there and a lot of
willingness to finance some kind of
buildout by these companies, at what
point can you say, well, it's going to
collapse in some heaping pile of dust?
This is the reason why people are
nervous, but at the same time, they're
still investing. Cliffness of AQR
yesterday on Bloomberg television,
really talking about that, saying, you
know, it's not yet a bubble. Yeah, it
makes them nervous, but it's not really
ready to explode.
>> Greg Battle of BP Parabar, I think,
presented it well on the program
yesterday. He said, you're going to see
the debt cycle take off. The credit
market support it, and the price to pay
is higher volatility, but it's a higher
market. So, a higher market with higher
volatility.
>> Yeah. His explanation is if it's 1998,
yeah, you're going to get 1999 and it's
going to be really ugly. But if you
don't get in in 1998, you're going to
miss out and you're going to have
reputational risk for not actually
having the upside. So, you might as well
ride it while it's still expanding.
>> Nvidia in the pre-market down by about
1.4%. The broader equity market down by
close to a tenth of 1%. Coming up this
hour, Dan Skellyy of Morgan Stanley as
Wall Street chooses resilience over
risk. Henriett Trees of Vader Partners
as Senator Schumer loses his grip of his
party and Heath Terry of City
Researchers Corewave cuts its forecast.
We begin this hour with stocks edging
lower. Dan Skellyy of Morgan Stanley
writing, "While the fundamental backdrop
for the market has improved from the
panicstricken spring at current
valuations, investors are not being
compensated for a high degree of policy
and earnings risk." Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, good morning.
>> Morning, John.
>> Do you think that captures the push back
we've seen across several single names
over the past few weeks?
>> Definitely. And by the way, I think the
volatility and the rotation that we're
seeing among single names is healthy. I
mean, the idea is if everything was
going up euphorically, then maybe we
could talk more about a bubble. But you
are seeing the market reward winners and
and penalize losers. And so I think
that's a healthy trend. I think frankly
there's seemingly a bubble and everyone
guessing whether or not we're in a
bubble or not.
>> A bubble in bubbles.
>> Correct.
>> Not in the credit market. Credit
market's wide open to support some of
this spending. Do you think that remains
the case? I think that remains the case
and is likely to be so for the
foreseeable future. You've seen some of
these bond deals way overs subscribed as
you know in the last couple of months.
Um and so we're just not yet at that
point where things are starting to look
more concerning.
>> Bubble of a bubble bubble in bubble
>> bubble in bubble talk. Honestly, this is
so derivative. I'm having a hard time
increase of the bubble in bubble talk. I
know. But it's true. There is this
feeling that right now there is a lot of
fear out there. I I just want to go back
to the point that you made that it's
healthy to see swings like this. It's
healthy to see swings in one stock name
of valuations, market valuations of $264
million in one day. The idea that we saw
that kind of gain just on Monday alone
in the likes of Nvidia after seeing $200
billion lost in one day. How is this
healthy? Doesn't it really point to
concentration risk in another kind of
way in the index?
>> Sure. And it's it's an excellent point,
Lisa. And so I'll say a couple things.
So first is what I'm describing is among
the mag seven themselves you saw a
handful half of them up on earnings and
half of them down on earnings. And so I
think that's really what we're looking
at. But I think to your point in terms
of absolute market values it certainly
speaks to the crowding that's happened
not only this year but going back 15
years really since '08 we've seen this
winner take all phenomena for almost two
decades now. And it speaks to just again
just how much the market share winners
have differentiated themselves versus
everyone else. Last point, you
referenced 98.99, which we're starting
to hear more and more of. Obviously,
let's not forget that in the stretch
from kind of the fall of 99 to the
spring of 2000, the NASDAQ doubled over
a seven or eightmonth period. That is
truly what a blowoff top looks like. We
haven't seen that of yet.
>> There's also this question of how far
the AI trend is diverging from the
underlying economy. Sure.
>> And we keep going back to this, how
difficult it is to get a gauge on what's
happening with people feeling pretty
negative on the economy, pretty negative
about their spending power at the same
time that you're seeing these runaway
gains and these expectations for all
this profitability and efficiency. How
do you square that?
>> So, it's a K-shaped uh market economy.
It's a K-shaped uh socioeconomic
recovery postcoid. Everything is
diverging. Um we wrote about this
recently in our letter talking about the
market is not the economy. The economy
is not the market. And when you look at
the changing nature of this economy
really since co but going back I'll say
a decade plus it's a servicesled
economy. All we've done is uh ring our
hands around tariffs and trade this
year. Trade is 11% of GDP. This is a
services economy. AI spending is being
funded largely by cash flow. So we're
seeing that as being somewhat more
insulated from es and flows in the
economy. And increasingly it's a
high-end consumption market. I mean, one
of the things we haven't talked about
enough, we think, is that 10% of the
population controls 40 to 50% of the
spending. And that's a cohort that's
been reflated in terms of wealth effect,
exposure to uh asset prices, houses, and
stock markets. And so, we're seeing that
uh bifurcation across not just the
market, but every component of the
changing nature of our economy. Does
that make you want to expand out into
some of the areas that are more
susceptible to spending whether it's on
the high income which seems like an AI
trade at this point or whether it's on
the lower income this sort of bet on
some sort of cyclical improvement
>> very selectively where there's also a
fundamental catalyst. So we don't want
to just make macro and factor bets. We
want to also marry that with some type
of idiosyncratic catalyst in in whatever
stock call or sector call you're making.
For example, financials. Obviously,
there's a lot of macro inputs, rates,
the economy, lending, but at the moment,
idiosyncratically, there's a capital
markets recovery. There's deregulation
coming from the administration. So, you
always want to have some type of
fundamental catalyst. Lastly, as we've
seen expectations around the Fed dial
down for December, we were almost 100%
priced a month or two ago, now we're 60%
priced. We've seen all of those small
cap and higher cyclical stocks trade off
as well. So tell me what the Fed's going
to do in December and I'll tell you if I
want to make that trade.
>> Well, there's some excitement that maybe
we'll get some economic data. How
relevant is that data to this market? It
>> it's super relevant and all of your
guests and you all have been talking
about this concept of flying through the
fog which we've been doing with the
government data. We think basically
trying to triangulate all the different
inputs in terms of private market
surveys and providers, we actually might
see a slight tick up in the unemployment
rate when we come out of that fog in in
the following weeks.
>> Is that enough to hold back the index?
because we've had lousy job numbers all
year and the stock market's been just
fine.
>> Probably not. So, it's a great point.
Probably not. And the index is going to
continue to follow the AI sentiment and
the earnings trend which continues to be
really strong.
>> So, what's your highest conviction trade
heading into year end?
>> So, heading into year end, I have to say
that the AI power and the AI
infrastructure basket, which has sold
off more recently, still looks really,
really compelling. Uh, we came into this
year expecting capital spend to be 300
billion. It's tracking towards 500
billion, but in terms of what we heard
from the tech players over the last
month, we're going to look at maybe 700
billion going into next year. So, if you
think downstream in terms of all the
industrial power and different utility
components, we think that trade still
looks really compelling and it's sold.
It's come off a little bit off the
highs.
>> Dan Scanley of Morgan Stanley. Dan, it's
good to see you.
>> Likewise.
>> Thank you, sir. The energy story part of
the big tech AI thing.
>> Yeah. kind of catch up to how much
people are expecting to build out and
Jeff Curry talking about how absolutely
this is his main bet and you're going to
see an ongoing outperformance in all
sorts of commodities. It's the best time
ever to get invested because of just how
much they have to catch up and that does
seem to be playing out in markets.
>> You think the politicians just stand by
and let this happen? A wave of populism
taking over Washington DC worried about
affordability. You think they just stand
by and watch this happen? I did notice
that Bernie Sanders held a rally
yesterday on energy costs. So, probably
not. It's probably going to be a pretty
big issue. Question is, how do you
address it? Do you suppress it? Do you
uh juice production of energy in some
capacity with national subsidies? Do you
just say this is for a better good? Do
you hope for efficiencies in terms of
AI? A lot of different ways to uh to
skin this cat.
>> I would say it's a big story for 26, but
I think it's a big story for right now.
Equity futures on the S&P down by about
two ten of 1% with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John, thank you. Shares of Soft Bank
rising in Japanese trading. The company
announcing it sold its entire stake in
Nvidia for nearly $6 billion to help
fuel its massive AI push. The move is
expected to fund other projects
including developing data centers and
manufacturing robots in the US. Soft
Bank also announcing a 41 stock split.
Paramount Sky Dance share is also rising
in the pre-market. The company reported
financial results for the first time
since an investor group took over the
company in August. Revenue fell short of
analyst estimates, but it raised its
target for jobs cuts and cost-saving
measures, announcing a goal to achieve
at least $3 billion in cost savings.
Flight cuts ordered by the Trump
administration entering their fifth day.
The FAA restrictions are set to increase
over the coming days as lawmakers push
to end the government shutdown. The
disruptions will boost costs for
airlines, but could also improve their
fourth quarter margins as carriers drop
unprofitable routes. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, shutdown backlash.
I cannot support the Republican bill
that's on the floor because it fails to
do anything of substance to fix
America's healthcare crisis.
>> I've worked with Senator Schumer, but
it's time for him to be replaced.
>> The precious building in the Democratic
Party. Up next, Henrietta Trace of Vader
Partners live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. A tone of things for you so
far. Quick snapshot of the market.
Equities down by about 210 of 1% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, down by 0.3
under Sylvanas this morning. Shutdown,
backlash.
I cannot support the Republican bill
that's on the floor because it fails to
do anything of substance to fix
America's healthcare crisis. When
people's out-ofpocket costs double or
triple, very soon Americans will know
Republicans made it happen.
>> This deal would never have happened if
he had not blessed it. I've worked with
Senator Schumer, but it's time for him
to be replaced. He is not meeting the
moment. He's out of touch with where the
party's base is. So, here's the latest
this morning. An increasing number of
Democratic lawmakers calling for Senate
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer to step
aside after failing to stop members of
his party from agreeing to a Republican
deal to reopen the government. Blimp's
Mike Shepard is tracking a story. Shep,
Congressman Roana, this deal would never
have happened if he had not blessed it.
What you make of that statement?
Well, they are pointing the fingers very
clearly at their leader in the US Senate
for somehow either blessing the deal,
allowing it to go through, or uh at
least failing to keep his caucus in line
and holding the line against what uh the
party had cast as a Republican generated
shutdown by refusing to negotiate on the
healthc care subsidies that were issu at
issue and that the Democratic party had
staked their shutdown fight on. They
really wanted to ensure that those
Obamacare subsidies got a vote and were
preserved uh and uh restored next year.
They're set to expire in December. Uh
but they didn't even get that as a
concession in exchange for their
agreement to vote with the Republicans
yesterday. Now, some Democrats,
including Roan, are pointing the finger
at Schumer and saying he should be
replaced. But there is something
important to note. Republicans,
including President Donald Trump, were
willing to keep this shutdown going for
as long as they thought necessary and
the pain would have kept growing for the
economy. And so for the moderates who
decided to vote in favor of the measure,
they were trying to be pragmatic and
say, "Look, this is a battle we should
be taking into the midterms rather than
trying to wage it now and inflict that
kind of pain on the public." John
>> Shep, the old guard falling to one side.
Pelosi, Nick, Schumer, maybe chef, who's
stepping up? What's the leadership of
this party look like into the midterms
next year?
>> Well, it's a it's a good question and it
may be an open fight at this point. The
old guard really is uh drawing the blame
from younger members including Hakee
Jeff in the House and Ro Kana in the
House. Jeff yesterday was asked about uh
whether Schumer should stay as
Democratic leader in the Senate and he
just offered a yes and a yes and that
was it. It was not the ringing
endorsement that you might expect from a
fellow New York Democrat. So, there are
a lot of internal misgivings. And what
they're trying to do now is refocus the
party and perhaps regain some of the
momentum that they saw from last week's
elections when they put the whole
affordability question on the table for
voters and succeeded. That was a message
that resonated in New York, in Virginia,
and of course in New Jersey. And in
Virginia, in fact, healthc care was one
of the top issues for voters as they
went to the polls. So, it is something
that they could try to play to,
especially once those Obamacare
subsidies expire at the end of the year
and we start premiums r see seeing
premiums rise and seeing voters start to
look for who to blame on this.
>> Jeep, it's good to see you as always.
Michael Shepard there down in
Washington. Joining us now, Henry Trees
of Vader Partners. Henrietta, a reality
check for politicians in Washington.
They've had two already. They had one 12
months ago in the general. The general
public weren't happy with affordability,
the cost of living in this country and
looked to Republicans to try and fix it.
And they're wanting to vote for whoever
is going to come out with a good idea.
And their ideology is not cemented. It's
not fixed. They'll shift from one party
to another with ease. You and I have
talked about that. How do you think that
sets us up for the midterms next year?
>> Yeah, I mean, that's exactly what last
Tuesday's election showed. It wasn't
just that Democrats came out. The exit
polling shows that it was Trump voters
who went for him in 2024 who swung right
back to the Democratic party this cycle.
And that's a combination of the
president's economic policies more than
anything else. And so what Democrats
have done here with this shutdown is not
keep an eye on affordability, which was
of course the talking point of the
Tuesday elections. But uh the inflation
uh grocery prices, health care prices, I
mean I'll be honest, you guys know I
don't like healthcare. Even I know now
that the insurance premiums for people
over the age of 60 are increased $919
as a result of not extending these ACA
subsidies. And we just spent 41 days
saying that back to back. We're going to
have a vote on it in December and we'll
do it again in January. So I think that
for the Democrats just keeping this
message alive is outside of the beltway
sending the message that has just won an
election and looks like it'll be a
repeat of 2018 based off what we're
seeing in the polling. To build on that,
Henrietta, do you think that this
shutdown was futile for the Democrats or
do you think that it actually yielded
some political benefits?
>> I think it yielded a lot of political
benefits. I'll cover a couple. Number
one, I think it's setting up Schumer to
step down and pave the way for the
senator from Hawaii to come in and be
the next Democratic leader in the Senate
side. That's, you know, pretty plainly
uh something that's building within the
Democratic conference on the Senate
side. I think that's something that
Schumer is ushering in himself and he
took a lot of arrows by voting against
this bill by agreeing to let the eight
moderates cross the line. It's exactly
however many you needed. I think that's
what leadership does, especially on the
Democratic side. You've seen it in the
past. Joe Biden just did it last year.
Um, on the messaging side, think about
where the numbers are. President Trump's
approval rating has cut again in half.
you went from -7 to -13 in the polling
averages just since October. And on the
congressional ballot, in generic
polling, the Democrats went from plus
one in the generic ballot on October 1st
to plus four now. That's enough to get
you the midterm House elections. And
that's the the goal of leadership.
>> There's a lot of time between now and
the midterms. And it really includes the
beginning part of next year when we
could potentially get uh tax rebates.
You can call them the tariff dividend.
You can call them whatever you want, but
a lot of people are expecting more money
in people's pockets come January and
February. How much do you expect that to
really skew things the other direction
back toward the Republicans heading into
the midterms?
>> Why do you need a $2,000 rebate?
What's the problem? Is the inflation
still rising? Is affordability still a
problem? Didn't we just pass a one big
beautiful bill with three and a half
trillion dollars of deficit increases?
Why do we need a $2,000 dividend check
that by the way will not be paid for by
tariffs? Because the tariffs don't bring
in that kind of revenue. In the 2000
CARES Act, when we pass the exact same
kind of rebate check Trump is talking
about right now, it cost $292 billion.
The tariffs have brought in $89 billion.
If we give $2,000 to every, you know,
eligible American, that's a $400 billion
spending provision. So you're going to
increase the deficit to provide tax cuts
to Americans who are suffering from
inflation because of tariffs. I don't
think that's a winning message.
>> At a time when there's a question mark
over the policy itself and whether it
withstands the scrutiny of the Supreme
Court in the coming month as well,
Henrietta, where do they have space to
offer some kind of giveaways and change
policy? You know, it's it's amazing
because when I speak with Republicans,
they plainly don't want to go through
the very difficult activity of passing a
fiscal year 26 budget and a fiscal year
26 reconciliation bill. Democrats
wouldn't want to either. It's extremely
difficult. Voters opens up all your
members to vote. But what you could do
is you could get 60 votes to extend the
ACA subsidies. And then think about what
we just talked about. You get every
family with two 60 year olds in the
House on Medicare, Medicaid. you can get
$919 for each of them back in their
pockets. If you are a household with
kids with 20, 30, 40 year olds, the ACA
subsidies get extended. You get 200
bucks a pop. So, there's a pretty easy
path to 60 votes if you want it. Uh, and
we'll have those votes in December and
then again in late January. And if you
want to stimulate the economy quickly,
get money back into consumers pockets.
The ACA subsidies is a really fast way
to do it. And a lot of Republicans would
like to see that, too. Look at Alabama,
Louisiana, Mississippi. That's where
those voters are. As you've said, that
effort just had a 41-day commercial over
the last month or so, Henrietta. So,
we'll see where we end up. Just before
you go, really want your take reaction
to the prospect of a 50-year mortgage in
this country. It's come up repeatedly
since the weekend, Henrietta, do you
think that's the direction of travel
here?
>> Uh, sure that why not just rent your
house forever?
>> That's what it feels like, right?
>> 100%. I mean the whole idea is to reduce
the uh premiums in any given day then
pay off in 50 years. Given the fact that
the median age for home buying right now
is 61 years old. That means that when
they're 110 110
now
>> that's the median for new
>> for new home firsttime US home buyers.
The average the median age for just US
home buyers in general is now 61. This
is someone's game that is not the new
home buyer of say or the home buyer at
all of say 20 years ago.
>> They're the cashrich players. The
boomers of this world Bremo with all the
money.
>> Yeah, the boomers are supporting their
kids though in fairness. But yes, you're
right. The boomers, how could you?
>> And they bought their houses for a bag
of beans. I mean, come on.
>> But this is the whole point, right? You
need to have some sort of reset in the
housing market. You need prices to come
down.
>> Prices have to come down.
>> So if prices don't come down, if you
just keep inflating them, the
affordability just gets worse. been a
problem for decades. They don't want
prices to go down. Why don't they want
prices to go down? Because the people
that vote for them,
>> the boomers ultimately don't want the
value of their houses to come down.
>> But this is what happened with the auto
loans, right? We saw 10-year auto loans.
Auto prices went up. So, people had to
take out more loans. This is the same
kind of thing with a 50-year mortgage.
How much is that actually going to help
things? And oh, yeah, by the way, about
a third of the CPI input is from housing
costs. So, imagine that any increase
there will just feed into the
perceptions of inflation. I'm not sure
this is the remedy. You don't solve a
price problem with a demand side
solution. I just don't know why they
don't understand this. But politicians,
I think, do get it. And ultimately, what
they get is they need these people to
come out and vote for them all the time,
every single year. So, they keep doing
the same thing. Demand side solution,
demand side solution. Housing is their
ticket to get reelected. Has been for a
long time.
>> I love the idea though that Henrietta
Trees just said, which is basically rent
your house forever. It's essentially
what you're saying because ultimately
either you're going to stay there
forever or you're hoping to flip it at a
higher price and then we're back to, you
know, 2005. Henrietta, I appreciate your
time. Henrietta trace their faded
partners. Nobody wants to go back to
that era in the housing market of 20
years ago. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Heath Terry of City
Research as Core Wee cuts its revenue
forecast. Plus, Yut is coming back to
give you your morning movers. Shares of
crypto exchange Gemini sinking after
posting a wider than expected loss. That
name is down by 9%. For the broader
market, Eg futures doing okay. We're
down by about 210 of 1% on the S&P 500.
A monster rally to start the trading
week on the Nasdaq yesterday. More than
2%, a 2% plus gain on the NASDAQ 100.
The biggest one-day rally going back to
May following the worst week for the
NASDAQ since early April. It has been a
choppy ride over the last week or so.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
We're waking up to a freezing New York
City in the low30s. For the Brits
watching, that is zero. Freezing brown
in New York City, the start of winter.
>> Yeah. And actually, my my youngest son
last night was saying, "Look, it feels
like it's 20. It's going to be so cold."
So, yes, wear a jacket today. We are
actually in winter and it is snowing in
Chicago and upstate. And so, this is
going to be what we experience this
year. Just on the airlines and the
amount of cancellations we saw over the
weekend, there was some discussion of
how much of that was weather related and
how much of it was related to the
government shutdown.
>> When you take a look at Chicago in
particular and O'Hare, you see the level
of cancellation far above what you're
seeing in other major airports in New
York City for example and other hubs. So
yes, it does seem like there is some
sort of snow related cancellations.
Nonetheless, if you do have the
transportation secretary coming out and
mandating a cap on how much volume there
is, that's going to have ramifications
and ripple effects. That was for anyone
out there looking to sponsor a weather
segment right here on Bloomberg
Surveyor.
>> I will 100% do it.
>> Yeah, you
>> I did it in Fargo, North Dakota for a
while.
>> Did you? You did the weather.
>> Yeah.
>> On TV?
>> No, it was I would write articles for
like, you know, a month straight about
Yes. It's still -30 today.
>> It's cold out there.
>> Go.
>> Anyway, I digress.
>> That works. Didn't Boba do that back in
the day?
>> I don't know. I was 21. Anyway, let's
move on.
>> All right, we can we can move on. People
want more though, don't you? You're
going to Google the articles that Brammo
used to write on the weather.
>> You're not even on the internet anymore.
But they were actually really fun. But
I'll I'll be honest, there were some
great ones about, you know, lip balm,
lip balm sales flying off the shelves.
You got to really dig deep.
>> This is when print truly was print. All
right. Equity futures on the S&P
negative by 210 of 1% this morning. The
brutal market pulling back by 0.4 on the
NASDAQ 100. Yesterday, the biggest one
day rally on the Nasdaq since May. Last
week, the worst week for the NASDAQ
since April. The small caps this morning
down by about a tenth of 1%. And as we
count you down to the opening bell about
2 hours away. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers with Yahara.
Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Corweave's earnings beat shows
the demand for AI infrastructure is
alive and well, but you wouldn't know it
by looking at the stock now down more
than 10% after a delivery delay forced
the company to trim its outlook. Add to
that general jitters around AI. Plus
that the stock had doubled heading into
earnings since it IPOed setting a high
bar and you get today's selloff.
Meanwhile, moving on to Gemini. This is
a crypto exchange founded by the
Winklevos twins. It also reported
earnings. Shares are down 7.4%.
It posted its first earnings since going
public. And they posted a wider than
expected loss than expected despite
soaring revenue due to high co due to
high costs. And unlike Cororeweave, our
first stock, which also went public this
year and has seen massive gains, Gemini
has not had the same fortune with the
stock falling nearly half since it
IPOed. And we end on the luxury resale
platform, The Real Real. Shares are
soaring 15% in the pre-market on a
strong beat and a raise with analysts
over at BI saying that the momentum
could continue into 2026 as shoppers
continue seeking value. It also comes at
a time when all the luxury brands like
Chanel are hiking prices with a bag
there now costing you more than $10,000
add to that tariff pressures and you get
more people heading to the secondhand
market. John
>> Yhara, appreciate the update. Thank you.
More from Yhara in the next hour. On a
radar this morning, the Senate passing a
temporary funding bill to end the
government shutdown. It now moves to the
House which could hold a vote as soon as
tomorrow. Democrats criticizing the deal
for dropping their demand for new
healthcare subsidies. Elsewhere,
SoftBank selling its entire stake in
Nvidia, making nearly $6 billion to help
pay for AI investments. Despite the
sale, SoftBank remains tied to Nvidia
through several AI ventures, including
the $500 billion Stargate project for US
data centers. And finally, President
Donald Trump downplaying criticism of a
potential 50-year mortgage, saying it
would help make home buying more
affordable.
>> It's not even a big deal. I mean, you
know, you go from 40 to 50 years and
what it means is you pay you pay
something less from 30 that some people
had a 40 and then that now they have a
50. All it means is you pay less per
month, you pay it over a longer period
of time.
>> Affordability, the buzz word down in
Washington DC, a reality check for
politicians. That effort keeps building
>> and it's going to be a difficult one to
solve because not only do you have a
market that's probably going to push
back in 50-year debt right now given the
fact that 30-year debt alone has been
had somewhat of a difficult time. I
mean, 20-year debt auctions are exciting
enough, but 50-year auctions, let me
tell you, that will be a fun day. At the
same time, there's a question of what
the ultimate goal here is. Is it to
reduce overall prices? Is it to create
more homes that are affordable? Or is it
to have people renting for longer?
Because ultimately, as we heard from
Henry Trees, and I think it's a really
astute point, that's essentially what it
is for 50 years.
>> Ultimately, to reduce the monthly price,
but the bank's going to make more money
over the duration of the loan. And
that's the problem that a lot of people
have with a 50-year mortgage. a lot of
people saying that say if you take a
$400,000 loan out, you're going to be
paying about $200 less in your monthly
payments, but you're going to be paying
hundreds of thousands more in interest
payments over the entirety of the loan.
So, it raises a question about the
financialization of the mortgage market,
which led to elevated prices relative to
people's incomes to in the first place.
And that I think continues to be the
rub.
>> We got to build more homes. We had this
conversation a million times in the UK
and the conclusion was always the same
from everybody else. We got to build
more homes. from the politicians, they
would say, "Well, I've got this really
interesting demand side solution. Why
don't we do a 110% mortgage?" That will
really address things.
>> Yeah. On the flip side, whenever they
try to build more homes, people say,
"Not here. Don't do that here." And
there are a lot of different uh, you
know, red tape and red lines that people
are forced to jump the hurdles of. And
you look at home builder sentiment, and
it's fallen off a cliff. So, how do you
incentivize it? It's a difficult thing
to fix. And right now, offering a
50-year mortgage sounds like something
that actually addresses something, but
it's unclear that it actually is either
feasible or addresses the ultimate
problem.
>> That's a snapshot of the conversation in
Washington. Let's turn back to tech
where coreweave shares are tumbling in
the pre-market. The company cutting its
annual revenue forecast after failing to
meet customer demand due to data center
delays. Joining us now around the table
here in New York, Heath Terry of City
Research. Heath, good morning to you,
sir.
>> Morning. Thanks.
>> Thanks for being here. You track the AI
industry. So can we put some numbers on
it? Just how much have we been spending
on capex over the last year and how much
will we spend in the next year?
>> Sure. So uh we're going to spend about
$400 billion on capex just across the
hyperscalers uh in the uh the US
hyperscalers over the course of this
year. Um for what it's worth, that's
about double what we thought we were
going to spend this time last year. So
those numbers have been coming up pretty
consistently. Going into next year,
we're expecting that number to be closer
to about 600 billion. And if we look out
over the next 5 years, we're talking
about nearly 2.8 8 trillion when you
factor in all of the sovereign
investments that are being made, all the
investments coming in from Neoclouds and
others that are building outside of just
the Amazon's Metas, Google's um and the
rest.
>> Can you give us a sense of of that 400
billion? How much of that is just money
coming into those companies and how much
of it is money that's being borrowed and
how do you expect that to change in the
year to come?
>> So, of the 400 billion when we're
talking about 2025, this is still all
money coming into the companies. As a
matter of fact, there's a lot more money
coming into the companies than that. um
total capex is running about 65 70% of
operating cash flow. So we're nowhere
near the point that we're that we're
going into debt for this. Now that's on
a macro basis. When you start talking
about individual companies like
Cororeweave, like Oracle, like Caruso,
like Inscale, like Nebius this morning
as well. Um those companies are starting
to use leverage, but clearly they're a
much smaller part of the market than
Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Meta.
>> Do you see any pockets of froth? because
this is ultimately the key question as
people start looking at pockets of
leverage or questions about how long the
revenues can continue. Is there anything
that raises concerns for you?
>> Yeah, abs. Absolutely. I mean, you know,
any anytime you try to do something this
big, and to be clear, we have never done
anything this big before. Um, but
anytime you try and do something this
big, there are going to be
inefficiencies that develop. There going
to be pockets, pockets of throth. This
is not going to be the first technology
that develops in a straight line. Um,
companies are going to overbuild in some
places. is we're already at a point
where we're underbuilding. That's the
issue with coreweave here. They can't
build as fast as they as they thought
they were going to be able to or their
partners can't build as fast as they
thought they were going to be able to.
And so that's going to that's going to
create, you know, this volatility that
we've, you know, that we've seen over
the last few weeks. And this is not the
last of it that we'll that we'll see. Um
valuations in places more in the private
markets than the public markets are are
getting getting frothy. Um but it's you
know, it's it's it's still really early
stage in this
>> going forward. you've gamed out some
projections for the next five years,
which seems very difficult to do given
the fact that this seems to be
accelerating pretty quickly. And I just
wonder how constrained that is based on
our conversation from earlier this
morning on the energy story on some of
the uh just ability to build out as
quickly as they will come, which seemed
to be the issue for Core Weeave.
>> Yeah, look, we we tell everybody when
we're talking about projections that
that our projections are going to be
wrong. We're just trying to get to the
most useful version of wrong that we
can. Um, but we we do we look out over
the next five years and we see about a
trillion dollars in uh AI related
revenues in 2030. That implies about an
85% growth rate annually over the the
next five years. Um, and you see the
early development of that in all of the
acceleration in the um cloud revenues
from those big hyperscalers, the backlog
numbers. You look at the backlog number
out of out of core last night. Massive
acceleration there. And it's because the
end user, and this is the most important
part of all of this, the end users, the
City Banks, the JP Morgans, the Fisers,
the AT&Ts, we're all onboarding these um
tools going from proof of proof of
concept to production. Um and that's
driving the demand up uh for inference
capacity at all of these hyperscalers.
>> Do you think we're underestimating the
boost we might see the productivity?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I I look, I I
think right now we're underestimating
all of this, right? we we are um
underestimating this the the impact that
this is going to have particularly on
product productivity, you hear it early
on um from the the developers. So when
you when you talk to CIOS and CTO's
about what's what this is doing to their
development organization, they talk on
average about a 30% improvement in
employee efficiency. Well, if you make
people 30% more efficient, you're going
to have a big boost to productivity.
>> Can we work less, fewer hours? We always
do this. We make these productivity
advancements and then we work even
longer. Take the phones home with us.
Work the weekends.
>> Yeah. Well, look, the bond market took
the hint. What about stock traders?
Please call in. Why did you decide to
work today?
>> Hey, Terry, will we work less? Look, I I
I think I I think we won't. I that's
it's again, it's just human nature.
We're going to take all of these tools
that we're going to be given because you
know what? It's not going to get less
competitive, right? If you and people
say this about our industry all the
time. um they're like, "Well, if we if
we uh have these better tools, then
we're going to need fewer junior
employees, we're going to need fewer
people sort of going in." If you're in a
competitive industry, if you're going in
to compete with your with your
competitor who also has those tools, and
you show up with three people and he
shows up with five, you lose. And so, I
don't think we're going to see any less
work because of this. How susceptible is
this space to some sort of new
development whether it's quantum
computing or some energy efficiency akin
to deepsek that completely disrupts the
models and the buildout that we've seen
so far
>> but go back to deepseeek right we we got
deepseeek in January what did it do it
gave us this this great efficiency in AI
and all we did was use it to do more and
so when we get these new efficiencies
whether it's going to be quantum whether
it's going to be uh new models you know
we see this with like you know uh a lot
of the newer models or newer sort of
tweaks to the technology that are being
done that make these things more
efficient. We're not using them to do
less, to use less power, to be cheaper.
We're using it to get better
productivity out of it. Um and again, I
think that's just the way we're all sort
of designed to operate.
>> What we've seen so far from about 35,000
ft is that earnings growth is still
tremendous, but employment growth has
really dropped off. um a range of
explanations for what's happening down
at the bottom here, but the space in
between is the space for a lot of
societal tension and political push
back. How are you considering what's
your assessment of potential political
developments which may constrain this
advance?
>> Yeah, look, I I I think we are in a
little bit of a wait and see moment
where companies are trying to figure out
exactly what kind of impact this is
going to have and where they can be more
efficient. And not so much do we need
fewer employees, but do we need
different types of employees for for
this? And so there's a little bit of a a
just sort of pause digestion period as
some people have c caused it that's
happening in the employment space. I
think as companies start to understand
the technology better as you start to
see um these things go into proof uh in
into production in ways where companies
have an understanding of what their
employment needs are you'll see that
kind of pick pick back up. But in the
meantime there's going to be
dislocation. We're not going to be able
to take call center employees and
immediately turn them into electricians
which is what we what we need. Um, and
so that's that's going to create some
issues and that always ends up showing
up in the political environment.
>> What's the best use case that you've
seen so far that convinces maybe some
people on the other side of the
conversation that you are going to see
that productivity boost that they're
skeptical of?
>> Well, I mean, the the best use case is
what we're seeing in the code
development world, right? I mean, you
know, we have 75,000 um uh developers
inside of city that we are seeing become
more productive. you know, everyone that
we talk to across the um uh across the
uh the technology environment will tell
you the same. Jensen Wong talks about
seeing a two to 3x improvement in the
developers inside of Nvidia because of
their roll out of cursor. Um and so
that's where you're seeing it first, but
that's just because that's that that
they're the earlier adopters. Like even
as we start to kind of roll through um
this uh throughout the rest of the these
companies, you're seeing those same kind
of production gains. Um, but that's the
one where it's the biggest.
>> Lisa asked the question earlier and I'm
going to ask it in a different way. The
best way to play this, is it moving from
enablers to adopters? Is it something
else the energy story?
>> What's your call?
>> Look, I we we look at that entire
spectrum, that entire sort of supply
chain. Um, we're still very much in the
infrastructure layer of this. So all of
those companies, the chip companies, the
connector companies, the uh storage
companies, the memory companies, um
they're they're going to be the biggest
beneficiaries here in the the near term,
but we are moving into the the stage
where the hyperscalers themselves are
now where the bottleneck sits. You
again, you see this in sort of the
corewave numbers. Um uh so we like we
like those we like that layer the
Microsofts the Google's the um that that
sit there and then one layer up where
you see the the data side of this
snowflake where um those
consumptiondriven models are benefiting
from this huge inflection in inference
demand.
>> Heath this was thoughtful. It's good to
see you. Let's do it again. Thank you so
much. Appreciate it. Heath Terry there
of City Research with an update on
stories worldwide. Let's check in and
get your Bloomberg brief with Vonnie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. First Brands' new
CEO testifying in federal court saying
he uncovered evidence of massive
financial fraud at the auto parts
company which included using fake
invoices to double pledge collateral.
The CEO also saying the company's
founder transferred millions of dollars
to his personal bank account, family
trust, and various businesses he
controlled.
Warren Buffett says he's quote going
quiet. In a letter, the Bergkshire
Hathaway CEO, who's stepping down from
the role at the end of the year, says
he'll stop writing the firm's annual
letters and speaking at its meetings.
The 95-year-old billionaire also says
he'll be giving more than $1.3 billion
to his family foundations with plans to
accelerate donations while he's alive.
New York Giants are looking for a new
head coach after firing Brian Dal midway
through his fourth season. Offensive
coordinator Mike Kovka will be the
interim replacement. Dball led the
Giants to the playoffs in his first
season and was named coach of the year,
but has gone 11 to 33 since. And that is
your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> brutal. Bonnie, thank you. Appreciate
it. Up next on the program, a fractured
Federal Reserve.
>> We don't want to make the mistake of
holding on too long for rates only to
find out we injure the economy. I think
there is limited room uh to ease policy
further without policy becoming overly
accommodative.
>> It's a divided fed. Sevatra sojen joins
us next live from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equity markets pulling back by 210 of 1%
on the S&P 500. on the NASDAQ 100 down
by 0.5 under surveillance this morning.
A fractured Federal Reserve.
>> I'm looking at both inflation and
productivity. And if you look at
inflation, you're seeing that it's been
pretty contained so far. We don't want
to make the mistake of holding on too
long for rates only to find out we
injure the economy.
>> It's very important that we uh tread
with caution here. I think there is
limited room uh to ease policy further
without policy becoming overly
accommodative.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Traders
pricing in a quarter point rate cut next
month as Fed officials walk a dual
mandate tight rope. Sabbatra Japer of
Sockjen writing a December cut is likely
and should get fully priced in. The
uncertainty around inflation argues for
fewer cuts by the end of 2026. Satra
joins us now for more. So badger let's
move with the first move first before we
get to the longerterm story the move in
December. Why do you believe the
president dies beat the president
Musulum's
>> because of the fact that you are going
to get start getting data when the
government shutdown ends and and what
you're going to see is some level of
weakness. You're already seeing war
notices suggesting layoffs. you're going
to see uh perhaps some of that uh data
that we you know from the shutdown start
to to creep in. GDP growth for the
fourth quarter is going to be uh lower
than anticipated. The drag's probably
going to be somewhere in the order of 1
and a half to 2%. So all of that is
going to be something that's going to
work into the sentiment of the Fed over
the near term. But over the longer run,
you look at the trajectory of growth,
the momentum in the second half of this
year has been very strong. There's
significant amount of capex investment
coming in for the 2026 and perhaps even
2027. Lot of fiscal stimulus in the
first half of next year. There's not
going to be that much of a reason next
year to to ease. So there's still a case
to be made that they could ease one more
time in December, but beyond that,
there's not much of a of an urgency to
cut.
>> Subatra, this is interesting, especially
after Peter Shear was on and he was
talking about how he sees upside
pressure on 10-year bond yields. You see
the same. Can you explain just what the
path of that is and why we haven't seen
it so far?
>> So we did see a a significant move lower
in yields partly I would say because of
the shutdown and the fact that investors
were moving into safety. You saw saw a
bid for gold. Um really investors were
starting to get a little bit more
cautious. It was perhaps a buy
everything environment where equities
were rallying and bonds were rallying.
But I think once we get past this and we
start getting the data, I wouldn't be
surprised if we start seeing yields
start to rise towards that four and a
half percent level. In our weekly last
week, we said the that the risk to
yields are two-sided. It's not uh
anymore a one-way uh move in yields
towards that that 4% and 10 and three
and a half% and twos. You're going to
start seeing yields start to repric and
re reflect the fundamentals in the
economy. And to us the fundamentals are
still relatively strong. That would
argue for modestly higher yields.
>> So let's talk about some of the data
that we're expecting to get. The first
being the September jobs report and then
after that it'll sort of trickle out
with a series of retail sales and other
uh types of indicators that we have been
lacking over the past uh month and a
half. Which do you think has the ability
to really move the needle on yields?
So for me I think the outlook on
inflation or the inflation rate is going
to be the most important because if
there's one data point that we haven't
you know say gotten the kind of clarity
that you would to me it feels like it's
on the inflation side on the labor
market side you do get state uh initial
jobless claims uh and as well as the fed
surveys that show uh you know both the
beige book as well as other surveys that
show that the job market is is is okay.
Yes, you're seeing some increase in
layoffs. You know, warn notices are
going up, but that might be more
temporary as opposed to something that's
more permanent. On the inflation side,
we just don't have a a good read and we
really need the BLS to start producing
the CPI data. So, that's kind of what
I'd be looking towards. Looking forward,
what I'm hearing from the White House is
that they're looking to juice demand.
The president's very focused on helping
the affordability issues that may be
haunted the Republicans in recent
elections. We could debate that another
time, but ultimately he's bringing up
repeatedly the prospect of handing out
$2,000 checks. Should we take them
seriously as a bond investor? Is that
something you should take seriously?
Yeah, if they're going to go down that
path, we should definitely take it
seriously because that's going to
increase deficits quite substantially.
And if you look at say the revenues that
you're getting from tariffs, it's not
nearly enough to offset the increase in
deficits coming from those $2,000
checks. So, you know, again, you also
have a little bit of uncertainty on the
on the courts on what they're going to
rule on on tariffs. So, you don't have
the revenue side to offset those $2,000
checks uh on the deficit side. So, to
me, that would be a clear signal towards
higher yields in this environment.
>> What do you think the battery of the
yield curve is going to look like with
the prospect of maybe juicing demand a
little bit, perhaps a reaceleration in
early next year, which is what President
Musulam's expecting. on top of that a
more dovish Fed chair taking over from
chair power. What does the back half of
next year look like in your mind?
>> So that's a very very good question John
because to me what that suggests is that
we've seen kind of this flattening of
the yield curve. We could very easily
see the yield curve start to steepen out
one because of rising deficits but also
because of higher inflation expectations
because the Fed is cutting into
strength. that would typically mean that
inflation expectations will start to to
rise if more cuts are being delivered
than what the economy needs. So to me
that would mean longer yields will start
to to drift higher. Of course it's a
little bit murky because from a
refunding perspective the the Treasury
has said that they'll keep couponish
sizes stable. So that would perhaps cap
the rise in yields somewhat, but the
biases would be towards steeper curves
and uh I would say wider inflation
expectations.
>> Zabadra, thanks for talking to us on a
bond market holiday. We appreciate it.
Sadra Japath there of SK Jen, thank you
very much. What did Peter Cheer say this
morning when he walked into the studio?
Bond markets closed. We'll let the kids
take charge today.
>> Yeah, this is pretty much two days of
the year that they let the kids take
charge on a veteran days in Columbus Day
and that seems to be where we're at.
Don't hate me. Only the bond investors
would call the equity investors the
kids, right?
>> Yeah, but at least the kids are having
fun.
>> True. A lot of fun in the last 24 hours.
Maybe not so much this morning. We're
down about a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500. Up next, we'll catch up with Omar
Aguila of Schwab Asset Management,
Lorina Yurichi of Tro Price, and Venu
Krishna of Barclays from New York City.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
up next.
Earnings are strong. The downside seems
pretty limited.
>> These earnings better grow into some of
these valuations. It looks like we've
got a problem with hitting valuation
ceilings everywhere we look.
>> This market has gotten very speculative.
>> That could cause some volatility in the
near term.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P pulling back from
yesterday's biggest gain since May on
the NASDAQ 100. We're down this morning
by 0.5% on the S&P 500. We are down by
0.2. The bond market is closed for the
Veterans Day holiday. What is open is a
stock market waiting for all of this to
happen. The government reopen and for us
to actually receive some economic data.
Maybe we'll get payrolls on Friday. I've
got no idea. What we will get is we'll
hear from the Treasury Secretary again
on Wednesday at a Treasury market
conference. We heard from him just
moments ago. Scott Besson saying we
inherited an affordability crisis.
That's the story of the moment down in
Washington.
>> And the real question is how do you
address that given the fact that right
now it is a very difficult thing to
change. Do you try to get prices to come
down, a sort of deflation in certain key
prices? That's going to be a hard thing
to do, especially given the fact that
the economy isn't crashing. So, that's
going to be tough. Do you end up with
$2,000 rebate checks in January, or do
you end up with a 50-year mortgage? Any
commentary about how the dialogue is
shifting and what that could mean for
policy will be very important.
>> The Treasury Secretary is on point. They
inherited a major adjustment in the
price level through the Biden
administration. The debate now is can
they make it better and are they
actually making it worse with the policy
we we've seen over the last 12 months.
The difficulty is that people are upset
about the price level increase but
inflation still is going up. So you are
see or not going up but inflation the
rate of increase is coming down but
prices are still going up and so people
are feeling that. The question is how do
you deal with this without crashing the
economy and how do you have some sort of
boom? The question that you've been
raising all morning which I think is a
key one. Do you answer with some sort of
give them more money? the idea of checks
that are similar to say the COVID checks
that people received that will probably
only exacerbate inflation. These are the
things that people in the market are
trying to figure out.
>> Checks and improved access to credit.
Checks and improved assets to credit.
We're not talking about supply side
solutions here to address the housing
market. That's not the conversation.
It's $2,000 checks to your point and the
prospect of a 50-year mortgage. I'm not
sure that's going to get it done for a
lot of people,
>> which is the reason why people are
looking at the inflationary aspect of
this, not the fact that cost of living
is going to come down. Either way, this
is setting the tone for the rest of the
year heading into midterms next year.
And the question is, do you end up with
a populist tilt that will bias this
market toward a higher degree of
inflation and a higher degree of supply
side uh response, at least in the terms
of cash and liquidity, uh versus supply
side response in terms of building more
homes and offering more supplies. The
S&P just a touch softer so far this
morning. The opening b 1 hour and 27
minutes away. Equity futures down by
0.2%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Omar Aguila of Schwab Asset Management
as stocks are edging lower. We'll speak
to Yuruchi of Tro Price as we break down
the latest jobs data and Veno Krishna of
Barclay's maintaining his bearish
outlook for the end of the year. We
begin this hour with the latest stock
rally on pause. Omar Aguilar of Schwab
Management writing, "We are getting some
corrections within the frothy areas of
the market. It is time to use volatility
to rebalance exposures to reduce
concentration. Omar joins us now for
more. Omar, always good to get your
thoughts on things. Sir, let's get into
it. What would you be reducing right
now? What would you be taking advantage
of?
>> Well, we have been experiencing uh one
of the biggest and largest momentum
markets that we have had since the late
90s. uh and think you know the exposures
that people may have had to the
traditional and momentum you know type
trades are very high and I think uh we
have been encouraging clients over the
last you know two months to try to use
these periods of volatility to try to
reduce exposure to that momentum trade.
uh we have seen these you know that can
actually go very quickly as you know the
AI trade the expending on capex
increasing capex continue to just
emphasize that sort of mega cap you know
dominance that we have seen you know one
of the statistics that we keep on
showing is that you know only 17% of
stocks within the S&P 500 have been able
to outperform the market this year so
that tells you a lot of that level of
concentration that you know if we go
back in history you know when it comes
comes down to momentum trades they tend
to be unwind very very quickly and we
have seen some of these head fakes
already over the last you know couple of
months
>> I've heard this argument repeatedly
throughout the whole year and if I
listen to people as they offer that
encouragement to move out of these names
I would have missed out on the rally
because that's what supported the index
what are you suggesting people should
buy instead
>> well I think if if you look at the
fundamentals of the economy if you look
at what what is happening you know we
have been encouraging clients to just
take this barbell approach and take a
look at the fundamentals of what is the
corporate earnings growth that you see
on these areas. You know normally what
you see in these you know probably not
very clear economic picture because of
the lack of data. You know we have seen
this softness in the labor market. We
have seen softness in the housing
market. We clearly see this deceleration
of economic growth when inflation stays
you know high. And what that would
recommend is for people to start moving
into the cyclical part of the market and
being more defensive. We're not
necessarily thinking that the economy is
going to crash or it's going to go into
very hard landing. But clearly we see,
you know, the potential for these to go
to a slowdown and only companies with
strong balance sheets will do. We
actually saw underperformance of
dividend payer stocks, you know, this
year. This is the this is the
opportunity to take a look at those
companies that can actually do well. So
started to go into that part of the
market start well. Interest rates are
probably coming down. you they already
started the Fed you know reducing rates
that also provides a little bit of
ability for cyclicals and sort of
midsize companies to start doing well
and I think I will emphasize the fact
that you know earnings potential is sort
of the biggest part of what the market
might look like
>> Omar does defensive mean something
different today than it meant say five
years ago
>> stability uh Lisa stability is what we
actually think about defensive is not
the traditional consumer staples utility
utilities trade and in fact utilities
tend to be more driven by AI these days
than what is the traditional AI but it's
really more stability in earnings what
we actually think about being defensive
you know higher quality names in terms
of profitability and profit margins you
know so stability is a big part of it
you think about it companies that did
very well through all this period of
uncertainty around tariffs and around
you know labor market cost increasing
etc were those companies that had very
good you know profit margins that they
are the ones that are able to still not
necessarily pass through the increased
prices to the consumers. You know, those
companies that are squeezing their
profit margins will have no choice to
actually, you know, pass through those
prices to the consumers. So, we we
clearly emphasize that ability of
continue to have sustainability of
earnings, quality of earnings, and
healthy profit margins. A number of
people have come on the show this
morning and have talked about how there
still is quite a bit of dynamism under
the surface and you talked about the
cyclical sides of the market that could
potentially do better especially if the
Fed cuts rates again uh next month. At
the same time, people are seeing more
inflationary pressures come in, whether
it's from stimulus efforts, whether it's
from the energy costs. And I'm just
wondering whether increasingly the idea
of diversification is starting to look
very different for you with the bond
market maybe not having the same kind of
profiles it has in the past.
>> Well, diversification is clearly the
name of the game and that has not going
to change. I think the the the main
concern that we continue to have is the
fact that yes, as we see in the bond
market, you know, a steeper yield curve
when we see inflation expectations
continue to rise and that is a big
component of of what I think, you know,
we may see, we we're starting to see a
little bit of movement on the credit
market. Clearly, this is the time where,
you know, diversification and maintain
the levels of quality in the bond
selection is actually a key part of it.
I don't necessarily think that duration
is sort of at play in in in the M market
at the moment but I guess the
expectations have been set but I think
the shape of the yield curve and the
movements that you have as you see you
know sticky inflations and you see um a
a continuation of that um expectations
that we're going to have a a more
steeper y is sort of a big part of what
we encouraging clients to look at. uh on
the equity side again you know earnings
you know potential and diversification
suggests reducing the concentration and
I cannot emphasize that even more
because you know the level of
concentration that there is in terms of
the majority of portfolios it is you
know pretty high and I think
diversifying away from it even if the
means that having to buy some of the
companies that have been underperforming
this year is actually a healthy thing to
do for investors
>> can I just follow up because we get this
argument so many times on this program.
We can't just buy something else for the
sake of buying something else for the
sake of reducing concentration risk.
Concentration has been a theme because
that's where the earnings power has
been. And Omar, I'm trying to understand
why you want to go somewhere else. What
is it about being somewhere else if it's
just for the sake of being somewhere
else?
>> Well, I think the the fundamentals or or
or the corporations, you know, tend to
basically look at, you know, where the
market and the price tends to be driven
is about that earnings potential and the
free cash flow generation. And yes,
you're right. You know, the companies
that have done very well so far, you
know, tend to be driven a lot by that
sort of earnings potential and free cash
flow generation and in many cases that
have provided a good performance. Now
when you look at what that means in
terms of sustaining that rate of
earnings potential that's where the risk
you know stays and therefore you know
the size of that you know uh
concentration when you have companies
that could be between three and 4% of
the active risk that goes into your
portfolios that tends to be fairly
risky. Now there are areas that are
still also generating significant amount
of earnings that are significantly
potential for free cash flow generation
that are not you know that high levels
of valuation. So looking at those
undervaluation companies that still have
the same characteristics the same
factors as some of the others but you
don't necessarily have to go into these
very high multiples is actually a very
healthy thing to do.
>> Where do I find them? Where are they?
Well, you know, they they are, you know,
significant in areas in infrastructure.
There are significant areas, you know,
within even technology. If you actually
look just at technology excluding, you
know, the max 7, you know, there are
components within, you know, technology
that are still pretty good that their
capital expenditure still to increase
their ROEs and the ROAS continue to use
very healthy. There are still, you know,
very this is the time where stock
selection matters and looking at factors
that drive performance, you know,
matter. you actually see areas within
you know the cyclical markets whether
it's in materials whether it's in energy
in in those you know areas there's very
very good opportunities that you can
have and again we have been talking
about it you know I've been talking into
your program about you know going into
small caps you know we still think that
it's early to go into small cap there
still need to be some structural pieces
that could benefit those small cap
companies you don't necessarily have to
go all the way and try to overweight
small cap but then looking at those you
know that tend to be you multiples that
are decent with earnings potential and
flee cash regeneration is the way to go.
>> Omar, good to see you as always. Thank
you, sir. Appreciate your framing. Omar
Abua of Schwab Asset Management. There
is concentration on the S&P 500. With
that, there is no doubt. Is it a risk?
Is it a welcome feature or an unwelcome
bug? How many times have you been asking
that question and it just keeps going up
and to the right?
>> Every time people try to sell the AI
trade, it just ends up coming back to
bite. A real question here though of
other areas that are part of that
concentration that concentrated trade
without seeming like it and you talked
about say some of the utilities or say
even consumer spending at the higher
levels. How much is that levered to the
AI trade because people are making money
from the stock market which is mostly AI
and they feel good and they go out and
they buy new Fendi purses. So this is
really the key question for me is do we
even understand the concentration
>> or secondhand Fendi purchases based on
what we heard from Yhierra a little bit
earlier the real real
>> I the kids are are doing a lot of
secondhand these days that's what I've
noticed.
>> Yeah but I I thought the kids were also
sort of spinning them off and sanding
them afterwards.
>> Yeah that's what they preserve them.
Well that was back about 5 years ago.
Now it's just buying them but they do
preserve them and they sell things. But
it's this whole trade online. It's sort
of anyway.
>> I think that's great.
>> I think so too.
entrepreneurial spirit of flipping your
sneakers,
>> flipping your sweatshirts,
>> flipping your sweatpants, everything.
Everything could be flipped.
>> Can't keep up. Futures on the S&P
negative here by 0.2%. The opening
battle about 1 hour 17 minutes away.
With an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief is Ronnie Quinn.
Hey Ronnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. The longest
government shutdown in US history could
end as soon as tomorrow. The Senate
passed a temporary funding measure that
would keep most of the government
through January 30th open and the rest
through the end of September. Now it
heads to the House where lawmakers are
expected to take the measure up
tomorrow.
Meta shares falling in the pre-market.
The Financial Times reporting the
company's chief AI scientist is planning
to leave and create his own startup. The
move comes as Meta founder and CEO Mark
Zuckerberg is shaking up the company's
AI strategy in order to keep up with
rivals such as OpenAI and Google.
C3AI shares jumped in Monday's trading
following reports that it's exploring a
sale. According to Reuters, the sale
process is in its early stages and other
options are still on the table. One of
those options is reportedly fundraising
from private investors. Shares of C3AI
are now giving up some of Monday's gains
in the pre-market. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next, we'll
get you some morning calls. Plus, we'll
break down the new weekly ADP numbers.
That's just around the corner. Live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
Is the valuation correct for AI or not?
Right. It's it feels a bit frothy.
You're now seeing, you know, mega caps
move 10% on the back of earnings
reports, which seems like a massive
move. So, I think it just shows how much
uncertainty there is about whether we
can pay for this. I think there's a
chance we get a significant 5 to 10%
pullback.
>> That was the brilliant pity of Academy
Securities weighing in on the equity
market a little bit early this morning.
Good morning to all of you just waking
up and tun tuning in. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P
negative by 0.2% on the S&P 500. On the
Nasdaq, we're down by about 0.4. On the
Russell, we're down by about.16%.
That's the price action this morning.
Let's get you some morning calls with
one stock in focus. Callweave. First up,
JP Morgan downgrading the stock to
neutral, citing mounting supply chain
pressures. Your second call from Missouo
cutting his price target on the stock to
120, noting less optimism about its
revenue upside. And finally, Morg
Stanley raising its price target on the
stock to 99, saying it's the market's
most effective GPU cluster builder. The
stock is down by 9% this morning.
>> This has been the big question, and I
think that you framed it really well.
This is a this is a stock that has more
than doubled so far this year, at least
since its IPO earlier this year. So, not
even for the full entirety of 2025 so
far. How much is this people just taking
their chips off the table, bump bump,
and how much is this actually something
that's longerlasting? in a question
around some sort of existential risk
with the AI trade.
>> The stock is a cluster something else
this morning, isn't it? We're down by
about 9% in the pre-market. Let's leave
that there. So, we get something new
this morning. A weekly ADP report. Took
you a while to get that, didn't it?
>> Okay, we'll move on from that. Good job.
>> Limber's Ender Curran joins us now for
more. Ender, welcome to the program. I
don't see the number yet. How's this
going to work this morning? And how will
it work going forward?
>> Well, it is a new data set, like you
said, John, coming from the ADP. It's
going to be a weekly average. Obviously
a lot of focus on it given we don't have
the official non-farm payrolls data. The
thinking on this number this morning
when it comes out is if it's going to be
a positive number it would lean into the
ADP monthly data which we had last week
which showed a gain of around 40 odd
thousand uh turning around after two
months of declines leaning into this
idea that maybe the jobs market is
stabilizing. So, you know, it's that
kind of low hiring, low firing,
notwithstanding the some of the
headlines we've had on high-profile
layoffs. Now, if this number is in
negative territory, then of course it
will lean into the idea, hang on a
second, these headlines are gaining
momentum here. We can't ignore what's
going on. Bigger and bigger companies
are starting to let go staff and perhaps
we are starting to see now a kind of an
acceleration in the deterioration in in
the jobs market. Some complications, of
course, one of which includes the the
federal workforce situation with the
shutdown. some people uh saying be
cautious in terms of how that's
interpreted. But uh you know all all
eyes are hanging on this ADP data given
we don't have much else in terms of
official data to guide us on on the jobs
market right now.
>> And you've followed this a million
times. We all have. Typically when the
monthly ADP number comes out people
would ignore it, pour cold water on it
and say it's not a good suggestion, a
good read indicator of what's happening
with the broader labor market. Do you
think that's changed ender this year?
Well certainly there's a lot more
scrutiny and focus on this number as
purely because we don't have the payroll
data John. So I think everyone's
clamoring for whatever they can get be
at state level be the private level data
such as the ADP or be the headlines from
companies themselves. But I think
broadly speaking though there's a big
division right now in terms of where we
are in the labor market. No matter what
data set you're looking at you have
those who are arguing no we're clearly
seeing deterioration. Uh these headlines
will eventually show up in the data.
These headlines of layoffs. So there's
there there's that camp saying the jobs
market is softening and of course you
have those saying no you're discounting
the supply side story the big
immigration crackdown and you know these
layoffs are really coming from a high
level given the um the very strong
hiring we've had over the past few years
so it's a very split view in the labor
market John everyone's clamoring for
every piece of data they can get whether
it's the ADP or anything else
>> ander appreciate it stay close won't you
when we get that number we'll come back
to you current there of Bloomberg on the
weekly ADP data let's turn from the data
to the earnings let's turn to media
paramount about Skyown shares rising in
pre-market trading after reporting plans
to save at least $3 billion in its first
earnings report after its merger.
Joining us now is Githther Rakenathan.
Githa, welcome to the program. How did
David Edison do on the call yesterday?
>> I think he did really, really well,
John. I mean, the management team came
off as extremely strong. They laid out
this really good game plan for
transforming this company. I mean, this
is a company that has been undermanaged,
underinvested in for many, many years
now. They had a great plan out there for
cost savings taking it up from 2 billion
to three billion. Uh and then the big
surprise I think was just their forecast
for 2026 Ibida based off of those
numbers. So you know a lot of
investments in content in technology uh
and and you know what they seem to
suggest obviously the biggest question
was M&A um and they seem to suggest that
they have a really good plan just
organically and that they can build and
they don't necessarily need to buy but
overall I think it was a really strong
earnings uh call. Gita all of these
questions or all of these words the idea
like organic growth or efficiencies
speaks to the benefit of M&A being the
job cuts that come along with it. the
idea that there are an additional 1,600
people who will lose their jobs as a
result of this. How much is that the
ultimate goal of a lot of these tie out
tie-ups to remove some of the staff
necessary to allow just the creative
juices to go and fill back fill the rest
with technology?
>> Yeah, it is unfortunately Lisa, but it
is true. Yeah, synergies are a big part
of, you know, any media transaction. At
the end of the day, you want scale, you
want cost efficiencies. A lot of what
you know David Ellison spoke about was
getting cost efficiencies even in their
existing structure. So you're kind of
looking at you know the DTC platform the
direct to consumer streaming services
they have three services paramount plus
pluto and you know bet plus they want to
come and integrate all of that onto a
single tech stack. So it was a lot about
you know content and tech investments
but yes you're absolutely right if they
do go and pursue Warner for instance
Warner Brothers Discovery the whole
thing the whole rationale of that deal
really banks on synergies I mean we're
looking at something like $45 billion
that can be extracted in synergies in
the case of a potential transaction so
you're absolutely right a lot of it is
cost savings and it is going to result
in a lot of restructuring so that is
little bit still you know I think a show
me story when it comes to Paramount Sky
Dance
>> how closely Githa is this Is this story
being watched? How closely is this media
tie up being watched by others in the
space to see if it's a template for
additional merger, additional deal
activity? Do you expect that coming down
the pike?
>> I think it's absolutely necessary. I
mean, we are very much in this phase of
consolidation. Yes, we've seen Netflix
kind of completely decimate, you know,
the legacy TV model. So I think it's
really important at this point uh you
know for the existing media companies to
kind of uh manage the melting ice cube
which is you know the linear TV model to
the best of their ability and the only
way that they can do that is by
combining forces.
>> Disney reporting in two days time. Keith
what are you expecting to see?
>> Disney is is a really interesting story
John and and you know I think it's still
very underappreciated in terms of just
the amount of earnings power that they
can show both in terms of their
streaming assets as well as parks. Um,
so we expect obviously fiscal fourth
quarter to be pretty good. Uh, there's
going to be a little bit of noise with
the whole Jimmy Kimmel controversy and
whether they lost a lot of, you know,
Disney Plus subscribers. There's also
this ongoing YouTube TV dispute. But
other than that, if you kind of really
look big picture, fiscal 2025 solid.
Fiscal 2026 even more solid. I mean,
they have multiple growth levers. You
think of cruise ships, you think of, you
know, just the film slate, you have
Zootopia, you have Avatar, you have, you
know, you name it, all kinds of, you
know, Toy Story, Mandalorian. So, it's
going to be a blockbuster year. So, just
multiple growth less. And of course, I
think the big thing that we are really
looking for in fiscal 2026, John, is who
is going to succeed Bob Iger? That is
the biggest question. So, a lot to look
forward to in Disney when they report.
>> Keith, don't you just get the feeling he
loves this job? Has he shown any
indication he wants to leave?
>> No, he will. I think he has to this time
around. But it's it's I think it's going
to be so important to see who exactly
succeeds him in terms of laying out the
strategy. I mean, there's just so much
coming in terms of content investments,
in terms of AI. Uh so obviously the new
leader has to kind of really embrace
technology uh to take the company
forward.
>> Ga appreciate the update. Thank you.
Keith Rakenathan there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. We'll have more from
Githther throughout the week. Two days
time before the market on Thursday. We
should get those results from the Walt
Disney Company. Coming up in just a
moment, we'll regroup. We'll catch up
with Burina Yuchi of Troll Price as we
break down the path ahead for the
Federal Reserve and get you some data
from ADP. Plus, Yhira has your morning
movers. Nvidia sliding after Soft Banks
out its entire stake in the tech giant.
That name is down by 1.9%.
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. The opening bell 60 minutes
away. Equities down by 0.3% on the S&P,
down by.5 on the NASDAQ. With your
morning movers back with us, here's your
Hira. Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. Rocket Lab shares have roughly
doubled this year and it's getting
another another boost today, up 8% in
the pre-market. The company handily beat
on revenue and net loss per share.
That's thanks to a busy launch schedule
that's made it the second most active
space company in the US behind SpaceX.
And that strong momentum is
overshadowing a delay of the first
launch of one of its bigger rockets
which investors had been looking forward
to. Meanwhile, we are seeing shares of
Paramount Sky Dance also in the green up
nearly 5% after the studio boosted its
cost cutting plans from 2 to3 billion
and announced a fresh wave of job cuts.
All of this, as Gita says, as it tries
to invest more in its content. Also, we
did hear from CEO David Ellison about
M&A amid all the reports that Paramount
is aggressively pursuing Warner Brothers
Discovery. And while he did not mention
them by name, he did say that Paramount
has the balance sheet to pursue deals.
And we end on Nvidia had such a strong
session yesterday, its best since April,
but shares are now down nearly 2% after
Soft Bank sold its entire stake for
nearly $6 billion with with founder
Masayosi Sh hoping to use that cash to
fund some of their other AI projects
here in the US including Stargate. And
while they insist this has nothing to do
with Nvidia itself, we are seeing some
skepticism in the market. John
>> Yhara, appreciate the update. Thanks for
this morning. Thanks very much. Of
course, the Treasury market is closed
today because of Veterans Day, but you
are seeing some moves develop in the
last 5 or 10 minutes. You're seeing it
in Treasury futures. They extend their
advance. You see it in the FX market.
The dollar a little bit weaker. Euro
stronger. Euro dollar session highs
11596 just short of 116. Some soft data
crossing moments ago. Bloomberg's Ender
Karen has more. and uh what do you see
from ADP?
>> So we have the ADP saying that jobs fell
an average of 11,250
on a weekly basis in the four weeks up
to October 25. John, now on a headline
basis, taking that at face value, it
suggests that it certainly leans against
the labor market stabilization idea. It
probably does capture some of those
headlines we've been seeing on uh big
high-profile companies making job cuts
across the country. uh there are some
caveats with this data set. Number one,
it's it's new. So old economists are
getting used to it and working out what
trends they can extrapolate from it. And
then secondly, of course, some some have
cautioning that maybe the government
shutdown, the federal workers uh layoffs
might might be complicating this figure
and you might see a rebound as we go
forward in the weeks and months ahead.
But right here, right now, this ADP
figure suggesting that uh the weak labor
market story remains intact. End, how
does that stack up with the other data
points that we've had outside of the
official data over the past few weeks?
>> Well, we're getting mixed data points.
We did have an interesting read on small
business this morning, John, seeing a
dip in their confidence, which is quite
interesting, talking about declining
sales and demand there. And of course,
small business are the biggest employers
in the country. So, that's one to keep
an eye on. Uh, as you know, we're kind
of flying a little bit blind on the jobs
market side of things, plucking what we
can from state level and plucking what
we can from private sector. We have had
one official read on the CPI since the
government went into shutdown and that
suggested the inflation story. It was
perhaps at least it wasn't worsening.
It's certainly well above the Fed's
target, but maybe not worsening. All of
which suggests that the Fed are in a
position to uh it's a wide openen
decision as to what to do in December,
whether they cut or not. It all comes
down to how do you wait inflation versus
jobs. And from here in the weeks ahead
into that up to that meeting a lot will
depend on what official data do we get
what time period will it cover and of
course then there'll be a debate over
the quality of that data. So I'd say
John it's all about what numbers we get
in the weeks ahead in terms of getting a
good handle on where the economy is
actually at right now.
>> Ender thank you sir appreciate the
update and the current down in
Washington DC. I think we're all hoping
for some stabilization here maybe even
some reaceleration to start 2026. You
don't see it in this data. So what do
you see in the market? Equity futures
near session lows down about 210 of 1%
on the S&P. Not a major deal. Treasury
markets closed, but futures advance,
which implies that if the Treasury
market was open, bond yields would be a
little bit lower off the back of this
data, unlocking some dollar weakness,
some euro strength. That's what you see
playing out in foreign exchange. Yeah, a
real question here about how much given
the fact that we're seeing some of these
new indicators move the markets to the
degree that they are, how much when we
actually get the data from September and
then potentially from October, that will
cause some pretty big swings as a gut
check to see whether this is actually
the correct read. You asked Denda, how
much is this usually the correct read or
one that you can sort of parse through
to that non-farm payrolls report. It has
been inconsistent. A real question here
about whether maybe the inflation rate
is going to take on increasing
importance as people look forward
>> when we finally get the inflation data
of course
>> which will be after the Fed's meeting.
That's the expectation.
>> Weeks and weeks and weeks maybe
>> it might not be relevant but you know
>> I hope it's sooner than that. I think we
all hope it's sooner than that. Let's
get the view of Yuruchi of Tro Price
writing if we see more official economic
data that shows labor markets softening
this will increase the odds of the
committee coming together and supporting
a cut in December. Blurina joins us now
for more. Blina, welcome to the program.
How much weight are you putting on the
kind of numbers we've been discussing in
the last few minutes, weekly ADP
numbers?
>> Good morning. And I think right now we
just have to
uh go ahead and interpret this data
because this is all that we have now. So
uh a word of warning that the weekly ADP
data is noisy or is not as reliable as
the monthly data or the peril data that
we are uh usually uh getting from the
BLS. But with what we have in hand, we
knew that ADP had shown some early signs
of stabilization for employment in
October. And today both the uh small
business survey and the weekly ADP data
go against this view that the labor
market has stabilized because when you
look at the details of the NFIB business
confidence you also see there that
demand for labor has also been tracking
lower in this survey. So it's not very
encouraging for my view that in Q4 we
stabilize and in Q1 of next year we
bounce back for the US economy. So
tracking this closely but also keeping
in mind that the October data is going
to be very noisy and it's going to be
affected by the government shutdown. So
I think that's another point that we
need to highlight to investors.
>> What gives you the belief that we bounce
back next year? What supports it?
Where's it come from?
>> Uh we're seeing a bottoming out in some
of the confidence surveys and diffusion
indices uh that I track. We've also had
very very significant easing in
financial conditions both because of how
well financial markets are doing but
also because expectations about rate
cuts have been priced in for some time
now. Usually that takes two to three
quarters to support the economy. We're
also getting a modest fiscal boost ahead
of the midterms. I think as economists
we tend to underestimate the effect of
fiscal on the economy both on the
business side and on the consumer side.
I think that's going to boost
consumption in the first half of next
year. I'm also seeing signs of a capex
cycle that's been driven by AI and as
you know we are a bottoms up fundamental
research house. Uh all that we hear from
our credit and equity analysts is that
this capex cycle has legs and firms will
continue to invest in the coming
quarters. I think that's going to be
another point that helps growth in 2026
>> growth in terms of GDP not necessarily
growth in terms of employment. And I
wonder whether you're looking out to
2026 and see a jobless acceleration. The
idea that the jobs picture isn't really
displaying what's going on under the
hood, which could be more of a
productivity boom, which could be
something different that's really
fueling a new regime rather than
something akin to some of the tailor
rules of the past.
>> This is such a good question and it's so
critical for evaluating the outlook for
next year. In my view, we know that we
have a slowdown in the break even pace
of employment. I think that stays with
us for 2026 as well. That's partly
demographic driven. We have an aging
population. We also have a different
immigration policy now. So, we have
fewer migrant flows into the country.
So, employment growth will be slower
next year because of we don't have
enough workers to have a faster pace of
employment. We also uh I think have this
uh backstory of the labor hoarding
during uh so we overhired during during
22 23 companies hoarded labor and
perhaps they don't need to hire as much
in 2026. This is very important. Now I
think what happens next uh is key for
the Fed and for where interest rates are
going to be. And I'm going to get to
your productivity point in a minute. So
essentially we have this labor market
dynamics with not enough workers. If we
don't have productivity gains, we might
end up with a very tight labor market
with a low unemployment rate and high
wage increases. That's bad news for the
Fed. However, if we make advancements in
AI in the next two to three years and
that's complimentary to labor, we can
get that productivity shock that you
discussed and I think that's this
virtuous cycle, right? because you have
better productivity, better potential
growth and and that boosts the GDP
numbers without necessarily creating
pressure on capacity and inflation and
this can give the Fed a little bit more
room I think to keep interest rates
where it is and to keep inflation under
control.
>> Could isn't a great strategy and I guess
that I wonder what's the right data to
be tracking if it isn't necessarily
employment and if we're not getting CPI
so it doesn't really matter.
>> I mean this this coming month is going
to be pretty tough. We hope that with
the government uh reopening, we can get
very quickly October and November
employment data. CPI, I don't think it's
going to come in time for the Fed, but
I'm a fan of watching the regional and
national ISM surveys. They've been
giving us very good information about
turning points in the economy and the
services side of the economy there is
looking better than it did a few months
ago. And of course we'll be looking at
all the private sector data that uh
you've done a great job at highlighting
in your program.
>> Lena, thank you. We appreciate this Paul
as always. Final question from me. Just
quickly, why does it take so long to
collect the inflation data? What is it
about the collection process for that
that means it's going to take a while
and maybe we don't have it by the time
we get to the next Fed meeting?
>> They have people on the ground going and
collecting prices the oldfashioned way
in shops. It requires uh resources,
human resources. It requires time and
the BLS likes to do it at three
different points during the month to
have a balanced unbiased sample. And
again, if you're starting the collection
process towards the end of the month,
you're basically missing at least two
out of those three uh data collection
points.
>> There you go, Lorina. We appreciate it.
It's good to see you as always. Lina
Yurichi there of Tro Price on the
inflation data. It's going to take a
while to collect. Imagine that situation
in the Federal Reserve. It was kind of
the opposite. Last time we had CPI, but
we didn't have payrolls. And this time
we're going to have payrolls, but we're
not going to have CPI.
>> And what's fascinating is people have
been saying it's all about the labor
market. It's all about the labor market.
And increasingly, as we uh are on the
cusp of getting some labor market data,
more people on this show have said it's
actually all about CPI. So, the
pendulum's going to keep swinging as we
try to pinpoint. It seems like a moving
target.
>> It does keep moving and it will keep
moving going into next year. Blina and
others are looking for a reaceleration
in this economy, a pickup in the first
quarter. President Musulum as well of
the Federal Reserve looking for exactly
the same thing. That's the divide right
now. President Daly to you on the
program yesterday, she's talking about
maybe not holding rates too high for too
long. Other people on the committee is
saying, "Hold on, early next year you
get the bounce back. That's what the
market's priced for."
>> But what kind of bounce back are we
talking about? And this, I think, is
key. Is it a reaceleration in
productivity? Is it a reaceleration in
capital expenditure or is it a
reaceleration that is more broad-based
with an inflationary tilt? We don't have
a sense of that and I don't really have
an understanding of exactly what data
you can look at to try to determine that
because a lot of this you only know in
retrospect. So really the data that you
need is a crystal ball.
>> Weekly ADP that's kind of the moment
that's kind of in the story.
>> That's the crystal ball.
>> Weekly ADP is the crystal ball. It's all
we've got this morning at least. We're
down by a quarter of 1% on the S&P 500
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonyie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Well, let's get you
a recap of that ADP employment data just
out. So, private employers shed an
average of 11,250
jobs a week over the 4-week period ended
October 25th. Figures suggest that the
labor market has struggled to
consistently produce jobs as we get
later into the year. ADP had previously
reported that 42,000 jobs were added in
October.
Switzerland is close to securing a 15%
tariff on its exports to the US. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that a deal
could be finalized within the next two
weeks. A tariff deal would be a relief
for Switzerland apparently after
Washington hit it with 39% levies in
August.
Apple is delaying the release of next
year's version of the iPhone Air.
According to the information, the delay
comes after its first model sold below
expectations. Although the length of the
delay remains uncertain, the product
won't be released in the fall of 2026 as
previously planned. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with Veno Krishna of
Barclays maintaining his bearish outlook
for the end of the year.
Anytime you try and do something this
big, there are going to be
inefficiencies that develop. They're
going to be pro pockets, pockets of
throth. This is not going to be the
first technology that develops in a
straight line. We see about a trillion
dollars in uh AI related revenues in
2030. I think right now we're
underestimating all of this. Brilliant
conversation with Heath Terry there, the
city research head of technology and
communications. Caught up with him a
little bit earlier this morning. There's
a lot of skepticism right now and
there's a man who's wanted to step up
and say, "No, I think a lot of people
are really underestimating the
productivity surge you'll see off the
back of this technology." You know, I
was speaking to somebody who's in this
industry and they say when you talk to
New York, there's incredible skepticism
and discussion around bubbles. And when
you go to San Francisco, you go to the
West Coast, it's all about how quickly
this is moving and how they have to get
in that much more because it is going to
transform the way that we live. And it
seems like the world is actually moving
to the west coast more than it is to the
east.
>> For the record, he just came back from
San Francisco. Fair coast. It's true.
There's a lot of that.
>> Speaks to that, doesn't it? Equity
futures on the S&P 500 negative this
morning by a quarter of 1%. And the
opening bell about 42 minutes away.
We're down by 0.5 on the NASDAQ 100. On
the equity market, stocks edging lower
heading into the opening bell. Venu
Krishna of Barclay's maintaining his
bearish S&P 500 yearend target of 6450
as earnings season continues. Venu joins
us now for more. Venu, good morning,
sir.
>> Good morning.
>> 6450. Justify yourself, my friend.
>> So that is a base case and we have an
upside case of 7,000. I would argue that
you look at it more as as range at this
point in time. Uh but listen, we have
been it's just that the market has been
moving ahead. So we moved our price
target in early September, right? And so
already the market has moved ahead. So
you know we remain cautiously
optimistic. Uh actually looking into
next year we are more optimistic. We
expect earnings to increase uh you know
double digits 10 to 11%. So I think and
the earning season right now is
extremely robust. I mean this has
surprised even us to the upside. we were
more optimistic but this is building
momentum from the second quarter. Yeah.
>> What's happening in corporate America
that's generating doubledigit earning
growth. What are these companies doing?
>> So I think one is if you look at the
tech companies specifically they're
already monetizing AI to a decent extent
and that is showing up in their overall
profitability. So they're laying off
people and yet they're highly profitable
and they're still spending. So that's
one part of it. AI of course is being
tested and adopted to varying extents.
Still enterprise usage is quite low. But
one of the interesting things we are
noticing right now is operating leverage
is improving to a broader cross-section
of uh industries. In other words,
companies are doing a better job at cost
control relative to their sales growth.
Now that has been our fundamental
concern uh outside of tech especially
that there's been a problem uh pressure
on margins. So it doesn't mean it's good
across the board. uh some sectors are
still having a tough time for example
staples discretionary but overall we
have seen an improvement in cost control
relative to sales growth so more
positive operating leverage in the
system
>> it sounds like you're kind of leading it
to the bullc case at what point do you
just reject the base case and go with
the bull case heading into year end
>> good question so if you wait for two
weeks you'll know the answer
>> so in other words it might become the
base case in two weeks okay some
>> so you know I mean the point is you know
we normally we come up with our outlooks
uh you know sometime toward the second
half of November where we you know
update our numbers for this year next
year uh so directionally it's very
evident that the US is turning out to be
strong so especially when you compare us
to the rest of the world which means
Europe and APAC the revisions are
running better the profitability is
running better the expectation of
margins are better and that's the reason
why we trade at a higher multiple than
the rest of the world
>> you've been traveling around a lot I
don't know how you made it back
congratulations but there is this sense
that the dialogue is completely shifted
from earlier this year where it was sell
America, go into Europe for the promise
of growth, the actual spending of
Germany that's flipped. What was the
what was the environment like? What was
the sentiment like?
>> Yeah, I would sense I just came back
from Europe. uh and so I was there's a
certain layer of frustration over there
because my trip earlier I would say in
early March there's a lot of skepticism
about us about tech about what multiples
you pay for it about AI more broadly
speaking and underlying that was the
enthusiasm about the fiscal uh sort of
spending uh expectation uh out of
Germany for example so I think what uh
many of them realize is that they were
wrong so they were right for about two
months so there's a level of frustration
on that uh there's also this fear of
missing out. So the question of do we
jump in or not. Uh so that's a overall
question. But if you just look at a
scale like somebody was pointing out to
me, you know, German fiscal spending in
Germany over the next 10 years is going
to be in a few hundred billion dollars.
We are talking about one half trillion
in AI capex in the next few years. So
the scale of what's happening over here
is simply astounding. uh but I think
some level of skepticism I sense in
terms of the return on investment in AI
that is I think reasonable because
nobody knows which is a fact as to what
the true uh profitability will be and
that is important not in itself because
the scale of spending is so massive that
the market is effectively putting a 100%
probability that this is going to be
truly transformational more so than the
four other big tech cycles we've had
since the mid 80s, right? From the PCs
to internet to mobile, we're in the
middle of cloud and we have AI. Now,
that better play out because that's what
the market is telling you is going to
happen.
>> That's why people are so skeptical. I
just heard from a Bloomberg subscriber
directly. I can share the message with
you. We know the enormous AI capital
spend numbers, but what we don't know is
the return on that capital. The market
is discounting that the returns on the
AI capex will be significantly superior
to the tech company's legacy returns. Is
this really going to be the case? Is it
durable? Feels like a stretch. Do you
hear a lot of that kind of sentiment on
the road?
>> Yeah. So, I think I hear a lot of that
and I think the frustration, the
difficulty is literally nobody even if
you talk to tech experts have an idea
about how to quantify uh the scale of uh
productivity improvement. The other
thing is you know still a lot of it is
coming from uh having a better cost base
right in other words being able to do
more with less. uh but the real use case
will also come in the top line itself
which is we are in the early stages and
like I said enterprise usage is still uh
you know in the in the early stages so I
think that skepticism is reasonably
warranted but what I do point out and I
think we have discussed it in the past
that big tech as a group who are doing
most of the spending their multiples
have generally been easing over the last
two to three years so they are earning
into the multiples they're spending but
I think the big question now has also
shifted into the funding landscape. So
far, all the funding has come from
organic cash flows. And in fact, the big
tech companies are spending 50/50 on
buybacks and on capital spending. But
going forward, given the scale of
spending, increasing the credit markets
are going to be tapped in varying to
varying extent, public, private, asset
back and things like that. And so that's
a that's a question.
>> Is that good news for stocks?
>> Well, you know, some amount of blish
being used by companies is actually
optimal, right? So you are uh using a
balance sheet efficiently. But it also
means that the equity markets now have
another source to take a queue from in
terms of how risk is being priced right
and where is risk clearing uh and how
does it compare to what we see in the
equity markets. But if you look at the
scale I think as of now we broadly
estimate that in the tech area AI
related there's been about call it 160
odd billion which has been raised in
public and private markets. If you look
at the market cap of big tech companies,
I'm not even going to include Oracle in
this, it's touching 21 trillion. So I
think the scale is very modest. Uh and
many of these spenders are highly
profitable. But as the scale of
spending, so if you tell me that a
trillion is going to be funded in credit
markets, that's slightly a different
story, right? And and I think that's
what people are asking.
>> Venu, it's always good to catch up. It's
good to see you.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, sir. Venu Krishna there of
Barclays. Coming up tomorrow, we'll
catch up with Matt Mskin of Manual Life,
John Hancock Investments, Rick Reader of
Black Rockck on the program, Judy Bill
of Kane Anderson Runick, and Sarah House
of Ws Fargo from New York City this
morning. Good morning to you all. That
does it for us from New York City.
You've been watching Lim Surveillance.